# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 334.
(2) Distilled vinegar may contain permitted preservative, caramel as a colouring substance and
s pices as permitted flavouring substance.
R egulation 336. Blended vinegar.
(1) Blended vinegar shall be the product obtained by mixing vinegar with distilled vinegar.
(2) Blended vinegar –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i) 50 per cent v/v of vinegar; and
(ii) 4 per cent w/v of acetic acid; and
(b) shall not contain any artificial vinegar.
(3) Blended vinegar may contain permitted preservative, caramel as a colouring substance and
spice as permitted flavouring substance.
(4) No package of blended vinegar shall be labelled with the word “vinegar” unless the word is
conjoined in uniform lettering with the word “blended”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 337. Artificial vinegar or synthetic vinegar.
(1) Artificial vinegar or synthetic vinegar shall be a mixture of food grade acetic acid and potable
water.
(2) Artificial vinegar or synthetic vinegar –
(a) shall contain not less than 4 percent w/v and not more than 12.5 per cent w/v of acetic
acid; and
(b) shall not contain mineral acid or any other substance;
(3) Artificial vinegar or syhthetic vinegar may contain permitted preservative, caramel as a
colouring substance and spices as permitted flavouring substance.
(4) No package containing artificial vinegar or synthetic vinegar shall be labelled with the word
“vinegar” unless the word is conjoined in uniform lettering with the word “artificial” or “synthetic”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 338. Particular labelling requirement of vinegar.
(1) There shall be written in the label on a package containing vinegar, distilled vinegar or
blended vinegar the name or names of the source from which it is derived.
(2) Where the description of any vinegar or distilled vinegar indicates or suggest that it is from one
particular source, it shall have been derived solely from that source.
(3) Every package containing vinegar, distilled vinegar or blended vinegar shall not include a
pictorial representation or design in the label depicting the substance from which the vinegar may be
prepared unless at least 60 per cent of the vinegar contain therein has been prepared from the
substance represented.
(4) The word “vinegar” shall not be conjoined with any other word unless otherwise provided in
t hese Regulations.
R egulation 339. Sauce.
(1) Sauce shall be a liquid or semi – liquid savoury preparation of food with or without spices and
intended to be eaten with food as a relish and includes the food for which a standard is prescribed in
regulations 340 to 345.
[(1) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:30]
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, sauce also includes fish sauce, budu and cincalok as
specified in regulations 164, 165 and 166 respectively.
R egulation 340. Soya sauce or soya bean sauce or kicap.
(1) Soya sauce or soya bean sauce or commonly known as “kicap” shall be clear, salty, brown liquid
prepared from the fermentation of the bean of the plant Glycine max and cereal or flour.
(2) Soya sauce, soya bean sauce or kicap –
(a)may contain sugar, glucose syrup or molasses or a combination of these; and
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i) 0.6 per cent w/v of total – nitrogen; and
(ii) 7 per cent salt. [Sub. P.U(A)169 /2019]
Updated until December 2023
(2A) Soya sauce, soya bean sauce or kicap shall be commercially sterile with water activity (a )
w
lower than 0.85 at a temperature of 25oC or pH less than 4.5. [Ins. P.U(A)169 /2019]
(3) Soya sauce, soya bean sauce or kicap may contain permitted preservative, caramel as a
colouring substance and permitted flavour enhancer.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 341. Hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or hydrolysed plant protein sauce.
(1) Hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or hydrolysed plant protein sauce shall be sauce where
the protein is derived from hydrolysed vegetable protein or hydrolysed plant protein, as the case may
be.
(1A) Hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or hydrolysed plant protein sauce shall contain not less
than –
(a) 2.5 per cent w/v of total nitrogen; and
(b) 10 per cent of salt.
(2) Hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or hydrolysed plant protein sauce may contain permitted
preservative, caramel as a colouring substance, permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food
conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce
or hydrolysed plant protein sauce the words “hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce” or “HVP sauce” or
“hydrolysed plant protein sauce” or “HPP sauce”, as the case may be.
(4) The word “soya sauce” or “fermentation” or other words of similar meaning shall not appear
in the label on a package containing hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or hydrolysed plant protein
sauce.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
Regulation 341A. Blended hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or blended hydrolysed plant
p rotein sauce.
(1) Blended hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or blended hydrolysed plant protein sauce shall
be the product obtained by blending hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or hydrolysed plant protein
sauce , as the case may be with the clear liquid prepared from the fermentation of the bean of the
plant Glycine max and cereal or flour.
(2) Blended hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or blended hydrolysed plant protein sauce shall
contain not less than –
(a) 0.3 per cent w/v of total nitrogen ; and
(b) 10 per cent of salt.
(3) Blended hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or blended hydrolysed plant protein sauce may
contain permitted preservative, caramel as a colouring substance, permitted flavour enhancer and
permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing blended hydrolysed vegetable
protein sauce or blended hydrolysed plant protein sauce in uniform lettering the words “ blended
hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce” or blended “HVP sauce “, or “ blended hydrolysed plant protein
sauce “ or “ blended HPP sauce”, as the case may be.
(5) No package of blended hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or blended hydrolysed plant
protein sauce shall be labelled with the words “ hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce” or “ HVP sauce “
or “ hydrolysed plant protein sauce “ or “ HPP sauce”, unless the words are conjoined in uniform
Updated until December 2023
lettering with the words “blended “
(6) The word “soya sauce” or “fermentation” or other words of similar meaning shall not appear in
the label on a package containing blended hydrolysed vegetable protein sauce or blended hydrolysed
plant protein sauce.
[Ins P.U.(A) 162/88]
R egulation 342. Chilli sauce.
(1) Chilli sauce shall be sauce prepared from sound, ripe chillies as specified in regulation 297 or
chilli powder, with salt, sugar, vinegar, with or without other food. It shall contain not less than the
equivalent of 5 per cent w/w of chillies.
(2) Chilli sauce shall contain not less than –
(a)25 per cent of total soluble solids; and
(b) 0.8 per cent total acidity expressed as acetic acid.
(3) Chilli sauce may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance, permitted
flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(4) Chilli sauce shall show no sign of fermentation when incubated at 37oC for 15 days. The
Howard Mould Count shall not exceed 50 per cent of the total field examined.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 343. Tomato sauce or tomato ketchup or tomato catsup.
(1) Tomato sauce or tomato ketchup or tomato catsup shall be sauce prepared from tomato puree
or tomato paste or tomato solids derived from sound, ripe tomatoes with salt, sugar and vinegar, with
or without other food.
(2) Tomato sauce or tomato ketchup or tomato catsup shall contain not less than –
(a)25 per cent of total soluble solids;
(b) 4 per cent of tomato soluble solids; and
(c) 0.8 per cent total acidity expressed as acetic acid.
(3) Tomato sauce or tomato ketchup or tomato catsup may contain permitted preservative,
permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(4) Tomato sauce or tomato ketchup or tomato catsup shall show no sign of fermentation when
incubated at 37oC for 15 days. The Howard Mould Count shall not exceed 50 per cent of the total field
e xamined.
R egulation 344. Salad dressing.
(1) Salad dressing shall be a mixture of edible vegetable oil or milk fat with vinegar or citrus fruit
juice or both, with or without other food. It includes tartar sauce.
(2) Salad dressing may contain permitted preservative, permitted flavoured substance, calcium
disodium ethylenediamine tetra-acetate not exceeding 75 mg/kg and other permitted food
conditioner.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 345. Mayonnaise.
(1) Mayonnaise shall be a mixture of edible vegetable oil, liquid egg or liquid egg yolk with
vinegar or citrus fruit juice or both, with or without other food. It shall contain not less than 65 per
Updated until December 2023
cent of edible vegetable oil.
(2) Mayonnaise may contain permitted preservative, permitted flavouring substance and, calcium
disodium ethylenediamine tetra-acetate not exceeding 75 mg/kg and other permitted food
conditioner.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 346. Chutney.
(1) Chutney shall be a preparation made from clean, sound fruit or clean, sound vegetable, or a
combination of these with spice, salt, sugar, onion, garlic and vinegar with or without nuts. It shall
contain not less than 50 per cent of fruit or vegetable or both.
(2) Chutney may contain caramel as a colouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing chutney the word “chutney” and
this word may be preceded in uniform lettering with the name of the fruit or vegetable, provided that
the fruit or vegetable so named is present in the chutney in a proportion of not less than 50 per cent of
the total fruit or vegetable so present.
R egulation 347. Pickle.
(1) Pickle shall be the clean, sound vegetable or clean, sound fruit or a combination of these,
preserved in salt, vinegar, citric acid, fumaric acid, lactic acid, malic acid, tartaric acid or any
combination of these, with or without nut, sugar and spice. It may be dried.
(2) Pickle may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance, permitted
flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing pickle the word “pickle” and this
word may be preceded in uniform lettering with the name of the fruit or vegetable, provided that the
fruit or vegetable so named is present in the pickle in a proportion of not less than 50 per cent of the
total fruit or vegetable so present.
SOFT DRINK
R egulation 348. General standard for soft drink.
Soft drink shall be a beverage intended for use as a drink for human consumption either with
or without dilution and includes the food for which a standard is prescribed in regulations 349 to 359
but does not include milk and milk shake, vegetable juice, fruit juice, tea, coffee, chicory, cocoa and
their related products as specified in these Regulations. It shall not contain any added alcohol.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 349. Syrup.
Syrup shall be the liquid preparation composed of potable water and not less than 35 per cent of
sugar, glucose or high fructose glucose syrup or a combination of these and includes the food specified
in regulations 350 and 351 but shall not include the food specified in regulations 123, 125 and 129.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 350. Fruit syrup, fruit cordial or fruit squash.
(1) Fruit syrup, fruit cordial or fruit squash shall be the soft drink composed of syrup and the juice,
with or without other edible portions, of one or more types of fruit. It shall contain not less than 25
per cent w/v of the juice and other portions of one or more types of fruit.
(2) Fruit syrup, fruit cordial or fruit squash may contain permitted preservative, permitted
colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) For the purposes of subregulation (2), the permitted flavouring substance that may be added to
fruit syrup, fruit cordial or fruit squash shall be –
Updated until December 2023
(a)natural flavouring substance; and
(b) nature-identical flavouring substance.
(4) On reconstitution of fruit syrup, fruit cordial or fruit squash to the ready – to – drink product
based on the recommended dilution ratio the resulting drink shall comply with the standard for fruit
drink prescribed in regulation 353.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing fruit syrup, fruit cordial or fruit
squash –
(a)the words “fruit syrup” or “fruit cordial” or “fruit squash”, as the case may be;
(b) where the product is composed of the juice and other edible portions of only one type
of fruit, the name of the fruit from which it has been prepared;
(c) where the product is composed of the juice and other edible portions of more than one
type of fruit, the words “mixed fruit syrup” or “mixed fruit cordial” or “mixed fruit squash”,
as the case may be; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(d) the recommended dilution ratio expressed in terms of number of parts of water that
must be mixed with one part of syrup, cordial or squash.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 351. Flavoured syrup or flavoured cordial.
(1) Flavoured syrup or flavoured cordial shall be the soft drink composed of syrup and permitted
flavouring substance with or without edible portions or extracts of one or more types of fruit or other
plant substance. It may contain caffeine – containing plant extract as permitted flavouring substance
in a proportion not exceeding 1,000 mg/kg.
(2) Flavoured syrup or flavoured cordial may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring
substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing flavoured syrup or flavoured cordial
the recommended dilution ratio expressed in terms of number of part of water that must be mixed
with one part of syrup or cordial.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.
R egulation 352. Fruit juice drink.
(1) Fruit juice drink shall be the soft drink composed of potable water, unfermented fruit juice or
an unfermented mixture of the juice and other edible portions of one or more types of fruits, with or
without sugar, glucose or high fructose glucose syrup and shall contain not less than 35 per cent w/v
of fruit juice. It may contain carbon dioxide.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(2) Fruit juice drink may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance,
permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) For the purposes of subregulation (2), the permitted flavouring substance that may be added
to fruit juice drink shall be –
(a)natural flavouring substance; and
(b) natural-identical flavouring substance.
Updated until December 2023
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing fruit juice drink –
(a)where the product is composed of the juice and other edible portions of only one type of
fruit, the name of the fruit from which it has been prepared; and
(b) where the product is composed of the juice and other edible portion of more than one
type of fruit, the words “mixed fruit juice drink”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86, 162/88.]
R egulation 353. Fruit drink.
(1) Fruit drink shall be the soft drink containing not less than 5 per cent w/v of fruit juice
(1A) Fruit juice may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance, permitted
flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(1B) For the purpose of subregulation (1A), the permitted flavouring substance that may be added
to fruit drink shall be –
(a)natural flavouring substance; and
(b) nature-identical flavouring substance.
(2)There shall be written in the label on a package containing fruit drink –
(a)where the product is composed of the juice and other edible portions of only one type of
fruit, the name of the fruit from which it has been prepared; and
(b)where the product is composed of the juice and other edible portions or more than one
type of fruit, the words “mixed fruit drink”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86, 162/88.
R egulation 354. Flavoured drink.
(1) Flavoured drink shall be the soft drink composed of potable water and permitted flavouring
substance, with or without sugar, glucose, high fructose glucose syrup or edible portions or extracts of
fruit or other plant substance. It may contain carbon dioxide.
(2) Flavoured drink may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance and
permitted food conditioner including ester gum not exceeding 150 mg/l and b-cyclodextrin not
exceeding 500mg/l.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 160/2004.]
(3) Flavoured drink may contain caffeine – containing plant extract as permitted flavouring
substance in a proportion not exceeding 200 mg/litre.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86, 162/88 ].
(2) Flavoured drink may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance and
p ermitted food conditioner.
R egulation 355. Soft drink base or soft drink premix.
(1) Soft drink base or soft drink premix shall be a preparation in liquid form or solid form that,
when diluted and made up in accordance with the directions stated in the label will produce fruit juice
drink, fruit drink or flavoured drink, as the case may be, complying with the standard prescribed in
regulations 352, 353 and 354 respectively.
(2) Soft drink base or soft drink premix may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted
Updated until December 2023
flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing soft drink base or soft drink
premix –
(a) the words “fruit juice drink base” or “fruit drink base” or “flavoured drink base” or “fruit
juice drink premix” or “fruit drink premix” or “Flavoured drink premix”, as the case may be;
and
(b) a statement giving directions for the preparation of a fruit juice drink or fruit drink or
flavoured drink, as the case may be.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 356. Botanical beverage mix.
(1) Botanical beverage mix shall be a preparation made from the edible portions or extract of
plants or herbs, with or without sweetening substance and other food, and includes herbal beverage
mix.
(2) Botanical beverage mix may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance,
permitted natural flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) When botanical beverage mix is in ready-to-drink form, it shall be construed to be a botanical
beverage.
(4) For the purposes of subregulation (3), botanical beverage shall include herbal tea derived
from the planet Mesona chinensis, chrysanthemum tea derived from the plant Chrysanthemum
morifolium, and herbal beverage.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing botanical beverage mix the words
“botanical beverage mix” or “herbal beverage mix” immediately followed by the name of the botanical
source or herbal source, of that mix beverage.
(6) There shall be written in the label on a package containing botanical beverage the words
“botanical beverage” or “herbal beverage” immediately followed by the name of the botanical source
or the herbal source, of that beverage.
[Sub. P.U.(A) 90/99.
R egulation 357. Soya bean milk.
(1) Soya bean milk shall be the soft drink made by extraction from sound bean of the plant Glycine
max or from soy flour, soy concentrate or soy isolate of the said bean or a combination of these. It may
contain salt, sugar and harmless plant substances. It shall contain not less than 2 per cent w/v of
protein.
[(1) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:31]
(2) Soya bean milk may contain permitted food conditioner, permitted flavouring substance and
permitted preservative.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 358. Soya bean drink.
(1) Soya bean drink shall be the soft drink made by extraction from sound bean of the plant
Glycine max or from soy flour, soy concentrate or soy isolate of the said bean or a combination of
these. It may contain salt, sugar, and harmless plant substances. It shall contain not less than 1.5 per
cent w/v of protein.
[(1) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:32]
(2) Soya bean drink may contain permitted preservative, permitted flavouring substance and
permitted food conditioner.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 359. [Repealed].
[ Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88].
R egulation 360. Particular labelling requirement of soft drink.
(1) For the purposes of these Regulations, the word “beer”, “lager”, “champagne” or “Wine” or
other words suggesting that the product is an alcoholic beverage shall not appear on the label of any
soft drink other than ginger beer, ginger ale and root beer.
(2) In the case of soft drink in bottles with applied ceramic labelling, the requirements of
