# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 150. [Repealed]
( Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88).
R egulation 151. Canned meat with other food.
(1) Canned meat with other food shall be the meat product prepared from meat, manufactured
meat or smoked with other food, packed in clean containers that are hermetically sealed and
processed by heat to ensure preservation. Where the meat is named first in the description or name
on the container, the product shall contain not less than 45 per cent of meat of the kind so named.
(2) Canned meat with other food may contain –
Updated until December 2023
(a) sodium nitrate, potassium nitrate, sodium nitrite or potassium nitrite, alone or in
combination, as permitted preservative, provided that the final product does not contain
more than 200ppm of total nitrate and nitrite calculated together as sodium nitirite;
(b) permitted flavouring substance;
(c) permitted flavour enhancer; and
(d) permitted food conditioner, including any phosphate, in such a proportion that the total
phosphorus content calculated as phosphorus pentoxide, does not exceed 0.3 per cent.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing canned meat with other food the
words “meat with (state the name of the other food)” or any other word or words having the same or
similar effect”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 152. Meat extract or meat essence.
(1) Meat extract or meat essence shall be the meat product obtained solely from meat by
extraction, or expression or both and may be concentrated. It shall contain not less than 80 per cent of
meat extract. It may contain salt and spices.
(2) Meat extract or meat essence may contain caramel as a colouring substance, permitted
flavouring substance, permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 153. Edible gelatin.
(1) Edible gelatin shall be the clean, wholesome product obtained by processing the skin, bones or
other collagenous materials of animals ordinarily used for human consumption. It shall not contain
more than 16 per cent of water and shall not yield more than 3 per cent of ash. A 5 per cent aqueous
solution of edible gelatin maintained at 18.5oC for 2 hours shall form a jelly. A 5 per cent solution
prepared by soaking the edible gelatin for 1 hour in cold water shall, on warming to 60oC with
stirring, be clear and light in colour and free from offensive taste and odour.
(2) Edible gelatin may contain permitted preservative.
(3) No label on any package containing gelatin shall claim that the food is edible gelatin unless the
common name of the animal from which the edible gelatin is obtained is stated on such label.
(4) Where edible gelatin has been added to any food, there shall be written in the label on a package
containing such food, in not less than 10 point lettering, the words “contains edible gelatin from (state
the common name of the animal from which the edible gelatin is obtained)”.
(5) Every package containing edible gelatin shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
R egulation 154. Meat or meat product shall not contain oestrogen residue.
For the purposes of these Regulations, no meat or meat product shall contain residue of the following
compounds:
(a) diethylstilbestrol [3, 4 – bis (p – hydroxyphenyl) – 3 – hexene];
(b) hexoestrol [3, 4 – bis (p – hydroxyphenyl) – n – hexane];
( c) dienoestrol [3, 4 – bis (p – hydroxyphenyl) – 2, 4 – hexadiene].
R egulation 155. Particular labelling requirement of meat and meat product.
There shall be written in the label on a package containing meat and meat product, in not less than 10
Updated until December 2023
point lettering –
(a) the common name of the kinds of meat from which its content has been prepared; and
(b) where its content consists of two or more kinds of meat, the common name of the kind of
meat present, in descending order of the proportion present.
FISH AND FISH PRODUCT
R egulation 156. Fish.
(1) Fish includes any marine, brackish water or fresh water fish, crustacean, mollusc and other
aquatic life that is edible by human being. It also includes fish roe.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, fish that are cultivated or bred for human consumption
shall have been procured from clean location.
(3) Chilled fish shall be fish which has been maintained in a wholesome condition at a temperature
between minus 1oC to 10oC and includes frozen fish that has been thawed at a temperature of not
more than 10oC.
(4) Frozen fish shall be the fish that for one continuous period has been maintained in a wholesome
condition at a temperature below minus 18oC and that has not been thawed before use.
(5) Fish may contain permitted colouring substance used in grading of fish as specified in
subregulation 21(5).
.
R egulation 157. Fish product.
Fish product shall be any product prepared from fish and includes the food for which a standard
i s prescribed in regulations 158 to 170.
R egulation 158. Cured, pickled or salted fish.
(1) Cured fish, pickled fish, or salted fish shall be fish product prepared from cooked or uncooked
fish, that has been treated with salt, sugar, vinegar or spices.
(2) Cured fish, pickled fish or salted fish may contain permitted flavour enhancer and ascorbic acid,
sodium ascorbate, isoascorbic acid or sodium isoascorbate as permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 159. Smoked fish.
(1) Smoked fish shall be fish product that is prepared from cured, pickled or salted fish that has
been maintained in a wholesome condition, with or without the addition of salt, and subjected to the
action of smoke derived from wood that is free from paint or timber preservative.
(2) Smoked fish may contain –
(a) formaldehyde incidentally absorbed in the processing in a proportion not exceeding 5
mg/kg; and
(b) permitted flavour enhancer.
R egulation 160. Prepared fish.
(1) Prepared fish shall be fish product prepared from fish or cured, pickled, salted or smoked fish,
Updated until December 2023
whether whole or comminuted, cooked or uncooked, with or without the addition of other food, and
may be canned. Prepared fish also includes dried prepared fish.
(2) Prepared fish may contain permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner.
(3) Dried prepared fish shall be fish product prepared by drying fish that has been treated with
sugar, saccharin, sodium saccharin and other food. It shall be dried under artificially induced
conditions.
[
R egulation 161. Canned fish.
(1) Canned fish shall be fish or prepared fish packed in clean containers that are hermetically sealed
and processed by heat to ensure preservation. It may contain condiments, potable water, brine,
sauce and edible oils.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(2) Canned fish shall contain not less than 55 per cent of fish.
(2A) Notwithstanding subregulation (2), canned fish in sambal tumis shall contain not less than 35 per
cent fish. [Ins. P.U(A)169 /2019]
(3) Canned fish may contain permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner
including—
(a) phosphate in such proportion that the total phosphorus content calculated as phosphorus
pentoxide—
(i) in the case of canned fish with bones, is governed by Good Manufacturing Practice; and
(ii) in the case of canned fish without bones, does not exceed 0.5 per cent; and
(b) calcium disodium ethylenediamine tetra-acetate in proportion not exceeding 300 mg/kg.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 162. Fish paste.
(1) Fish paste shall be the fish product in the form of paste obtained by salt fermentation of fish but
shall not include belacan.
(2) Fish paste –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i) 15 per cent of salt; and
(ii) 30 per cent of protein;
(b) shall not contain more than –
(i)40 per cent of water; and
(ii) 25 per cent of ash; and
(c) shall be clean and wholesome and shall not contain other extraneous matter.
(3) Fish paste may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance and permitted
flavour enhancer.
R egulation 163. Belacan.
(1) Belacan shall be the fish product in the form of paste obtained by salt fermentation of fresh
Updated until December 2023
shrimp or prawn or both.
(2) Belacan –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i)15 per cent of salt; and
(ii) 25 per cent of protein;
(b) shall not contain more than –
(i)40 per cent of water; and
(ii) 35 per cent of ash; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(c) shall be clean and wholesome and shall not contain any extraneous matter.
(3) Belacan may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance and permitted
flavour enhancer.
R egulation 164. Fish sauce.
(1) Fish sauce shall be the fish product in the form of liquid prepared from fresh fish, other than
shell fish, with salt fermentation and includes budu.
(1A) For the purpose of these Regulations, budu shall be the fish product obtained by salt
fermentation of anchovies of Stolephorus species or mixture of anchovies with other small fish.
(2) Fish sauce –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i) 15 per cent of salt; and
(ii) 5 per cent of protein;
(b) may contain other food; and
(c) shall be clean and wholesome and shall not contain other extraneous matter.
(3) Fish sauce may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance and permitted
flavour enhancer.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 291/00.
