# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 133 and aspartame specified in regulation 134 shall be deemed to be a permitted artificial
sweetening substance.
(3) For the purposes of these Regulations, an artificial sweetening substance preparation in a
tablet, granular, powder or liquid form shall be the product of the artificial sweetening substance in a
base which may contain any of the substances specified in the Sixteenth B Schedule.
(4) A liquid preparation of the artificial sweetening substance may contain sulphur dioxide,
benzoic acid or sorbic acid in a proportion not exceeding a total of 2000ppm whether present singly or
in any combination as permitted preservative.
(5) An artificial sweetening substance preparation may contain polyethylene glycol in a
proportion not exceeding 1 per cent and other food conditioners as specified in Table II of the
Eleventh Schedule.
(6) There shall be written in the label of a package containing an artificial sweetening substance
preparation-
(a) in not less than 10 points lettering, the words “ ARTIFICIAL SWEETENING SUBSTANCE “ to
be followed immediately by the name of the artificial sweetening substance;
(b) a statement of concentration-
(i) in the case of tablets, as milligrams per tablet;
Updated until December 2023
(ii) in the case of liquids, as percentage weight in volume; and
(iii) in the case of granules or powder, as milligram per serving contained in a sachet or
similar package;
(c ) a statement indicating the equivalence of the artificial sweetening substance both in
sweetness and energy;
(d) the words “ NOT RECOMMENDED FOR CHILDREN EXCEPT ON MEDICAL ADVISE “ except
where the artificial sweetening substance preparation contains aspartame as the only artificial
sweetening substance; and
(e ) a statement in the form “ NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PHENYLKETONURICS “ or
“UNSUITABLE FOR PHENYLKETONURICS “ where the artificial sweetening substance
preparation contains aspartame.”
[Ins. P.U.(A)123/95.]
R egulation 133. Non-nutritive sweetening substance.
(1) In these Regulations, “non – nutritive sweetening substance” means any substance that, when
added to food, is capable of imparting a sweet taste to that food but does not have nutritive properties.
(2) The permitted non – nutritive sweetening substance specified in Table I of the Seventeenth
Schedule that complies with the standard set out in that Table may be added to low energy food.
(2A) Acesulfame potassium that complies with the standard set out in Table I of the Seventeenth
Schedule may be added to the food specified in column (1) of Table II of the said Schedule in a
proportion not greater than the maximum permitted proportion specified in column (2) thereof.
(2B) Saccharin and sodium saccharin that complies with the standard set out in Table I of the
Seventeenth Schedule may be added to dried fruit, dried prepared fish and dried vegetable.
(2C) Neotame may be added to the food specified in column (1) of Table III of the Seventeenth
Schedule in a proportion not greater than the maximum permitted proportion specified in column (2)
thereof. [(2C) Ins.P.U.(A) 318/2012.]
(3) No person shall import, prepare or advertise for sale or sell any food, to which non – nutritive
sweetening substance has been added except as otherwise permitted by this regulation.
(4) No person shall import, manufacture or advertise for sale or sell any non – nutritive sweetening
substance as suitable for use in food other than a permitted non – nutritive sweetening substance as
specified in Table I of the Seventeenth Schedule.
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) (10) and (11) – [Deleted P.U.(A) 318/2012.]
(12) Where a permitted non – nutritive sweetening substance has been added to any food, there
shall be written in the label on a package containing such food, the words “contains (state the
appropriate designation of the non – nutritive sweetening substance) as permitted non – nutritive
sweetening substance”.
(13) On every package of non – nutritive sweetening substance imported, manufactured,
advertised for sale or sold, there shall be an indication that it should be taken only on the advice of a
physician. [Am. P.U.(A) 521/92, 55/93.]
(14) The words “UNSUITABLE FOR PHENYLKETONURICS” shall be written in the label on a package
containing food to which neotame has been added, in not less than 10 point lettering.
Updated until December 2023
[(14) Ins.P.U.(A) 318/2012.]
R egulation 134. Aspartame, glycerol and sorbitol.
(1) In addition to the sweetening substances specified in regulations 118 to 133 only aspartame,
glycerol, isomalt, maltitol,maltitol syrup, mannitol, sorbitol, sucralose, erythritol and xylitol shall be
deemed to be a permitted sweetening substance for the purposes of these Regulations.
[Am. P.U.(A) 291/2000; Am.P.U.(A) 131/02; Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:16]
(2) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 291/00].
(3) Aspartame that complies with the standard set out in Table 1 of the Twentieth Schedule A may
be added to food. The maximum permitted proportion of aspartame in food shall be governed by Good
Manufacturing Practice.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 291/00.]
(3A) Erythritol that complies with the standard set out in Table II of the Twentieth A Schedule may
be added to low energy food and the maximum permitted proportion of erythritol shall be governed
by good manufacturing practice.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:16]
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing food to which aspartame has been
added, in not less than 10 point lettering, the words “UNSUITABLE FOR PHENYLKETONURICS”.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing food to which the sweetening
substances in subregulation (1) have been added the words “Excessive use can have laxative effect “.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 291/00.]
(6) Notwithstanding subregulation (5), food containing aspartame and sucralose are exempted from
this labelling requirement.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 291/00.
R egulation 134A. Beverage whitener.
(1) Beverage whitener shall be any product in liquid or powder form that is capable of whitening
and sweetening beverages if sucrose or other sweetening substance is present.
(2) Beverage whitener includes the food for which a standard is prescribed in regulations 134B and
134C.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 134B.Sweetened creamer.
(1) Sweetened creamer shall be the product obtained by combining vegetable fat or oil with sugar
or any other sweetening substance, milk constituents or other food for sweetening and whitening of
beverages.
(2) Sweetened creamer may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring,
substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) Sweetened creamer in liquid form shall contain—
(a)not less than 10 per cent fat; and
(b) not less than 24 per cent non sugar solids.
(4) Sweetened creamer in powder form shall contain—
(a)not less than 12 per cent fat;
Updated until December 2023
(b) not less than 30 per cent non sugar solids; and
(c) not more than 5 per cent moisture.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 134C. Non dairy creamer.
(1) Non dairy creamer shall be the product prepared from vegetable fat and suitable carbohydrates
and may contain other food.
(2) Non dairy creamer may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance
and permitted food conditioner.
(3) Non dairy creamer in liquid form shall—
(a)contain not less than 6 per cent fat;
(b) contain not more than 35 per cent total solids; and
(c) be adequately sterilized or aseptically packaged.
(4) Non dairy creamer in powder form shall contain—
(a)not less than 30 per cent fat; and
(b) not more than 5 per cent moisture.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
CONFECTION
R egulation 135. Flour confection.
(1) Flour confection including pastry, cake and biscuit shall be the product prepared from a mixture
of flour or meal and other food. It may be cooked or uncooked.
(2) Flour confection may contain –
(a) sorbic acid and its sodium, potassium or calcium salts not exceeding 2000 mg/kg and
propionic acid and its sodium, potassium or calcium salts not exceeding 2000 mg/kg as
permitted preservative;
(b) permitted colouring substance;
(c) permitted flavouring substance; or
(d) ammonium chloride as a permitted food conditioner not exceeding 2500 mg/kg of flour or
meal used and other permitted food conditioners.
(3) The coating of biscuit described as “chocolate” shall comply with the standard for chocolate
prescribed in regulation 279.
]
R egulation 136. Sugar confection.
(1) Sugar confection shall be any product made principally from sugar, glucose, sorbitol or any other
sweetening substances, other than non nutritive sweetening substance, with or without other food,
and shall include chewing gum, bubble gum and other masticatory confection and cake decoration but
shall not include frozen confection.
(2) Sugar confection may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance,
permitted food conditioner and acesulfame potassium not exceeding 3,500 mg/kg as permitted non-
Updated until December 2023
nutritive sweetening substance.
[(2) Subs. P.U.(A) 306/2009:17]
(3) Chewing gum and bubble gum may contain carnauba wax not exceeding 1,200 mg/kg as a
glazing agent and B –cyclodextrin not exceeding 20,000 mg/ kg as permitted food conditioner.
[(3) Ins. P.U.(A) 160/2004.
R egulation 137. Frozen confection.
(1) Frozen confection shall be a product of milk or skimmed milk with milk fat or edible vegetable
fat or a combination of these, or cream or butter or a combination of these, with sugar and other food.
It shall in all other respects comply with the standard for ice cream prescribed in regulation 116.
(2) Frozen confection that are sold as “milk blocks” or under any other description in which the
word “milk” or “diary” or any word of similar meaning is used shall contain not less than 3.25 per cent
o f milk fat.
R egulation 138. Ice confection.
(1) Ice confection shall be a frozen preparation of water with other food. It shall include cream
ices, water ices, ice sherbets and ice lollipops.
(2) Ice confection may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance and
p ermitted food conditioner.
R egulation 139. Table confection.
(1) In these Regulations, “table confection” means any preparation including jelly crystals that is
suitable and intended for use as a dessert or for ready conversion into a dessert and for which no
other standard is prescribed in these Regulations.
(2) Table confection may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance
and permitted food conditioner.
Regulation 139A. Controlled jelly confection
(1) Controlled jelly confection shall be any table confection for which a standard is prescribed in
