# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 285 of these Regulations.
(8) A special dietary food with low sodium content may contain salt substitutes which complies
with subregulations (4) and (5) and the amount shall be limited in accordance with Good Manufacturing
Practice.
(9) The following details shall be written in the label on a package of low sodium food or very low
sodium food excluding salt substitutes:
(a) the words "low sodium" or "very low sodium", as the case may be;
(b) the sodium content to the nearest multiple of 5mg/100g and, in addition, per as specified
serving of the food as normally consumed;
(c) the average carbohydrate, protein and fat content in 100g of the product as normally
consumed, as well as the kilocalorie or kilojoule value;
(d) a statement on the addition of the salt substitutes;
(e) when a salt substitute, composed entirely or partially of a potassium salt, has been added,
the total amount of potassium salt expressed as mg cation/100g of the food as normally
consumed; and
(f) direction for storage and information regarding its keeping before and after the package
has been opened.
(10) The following details shall be written in the label on a package of salt substitutes:
(a) the words "low sodium salt substitute" or "low sodium dietetic salt";
(b) the amount of the cations sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, ammonium and
choline per 100g w/w contained therein; and
(c) the words "take only on medical advice" on the principal display panel.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 131/02
PART IX - USE OF WATER, ICE OR STEAM
R egulation 394. Standard for wholesome water or steam.
(1) Water shall be clean and free from contamination, objectionable taste and odour, and shall comply
with the standard as prescribed in the Twenty- fifth A Schedule.
(1) Am. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
(2) In these Regulations any reference to "potable water" shall be taken to be a reference to "water" as
specified in subregulation (1).
(3) Steam shall be the product derived from water that complies with the standard prescribed in
subregulation (1).
[(3) Am. P.U.(A) 113/2009]
(4) No person shall use, cause or permit, to be used, any water or steam in the preparation or
Updated until December 2023
manufacture of any food for sale, unless that water or steam complies with the standard prescribed in this
regulation.
(5) No person shall cause or permit any water or steam to come into contract with a food for sale, in
the course of its preparation, storage, delivery or exposure for sale, unless that water or steam
complies with the standard prescribed in this regulation.
[(4) & (5) Am. P.U.(A) 113/2009]
Regulation 394A. Standard for wholesome ice.
(1) Ice shall be the product derived from water that complies with the standard specified in
