# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 115. [Repealed]
[Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 116. Ice cream.
(1) Ice cream shall be made from milk or milk product with milk fat, vegetable fat, cream, butter or
a combination of these and sugar, and may contain other wholesome food.
(2) Ice cream shall –
Updated until December 2023
(a) contain not less than 10 per cent of milk fat or vegetable fat or a combination of these; and
(b) comply with the microbiological standard prescribed in regulation 39.
(3) Ice cream may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance and
permitted food conditioner.
(4) Ice cream ingredients shall be efficiently heat – treated either by being kept at temperature of
not less than 69oC for at least 20 minutes, or not less than 74oC for at least 10 minutes, or not less than
80oC for at least 15 seconds or not less than 86oC for at least 10 seconds or other equivalent time-
temperature relationship and then frozen.
(5) The volume of air incorporated in ice cream shall be such that the weight per unit volume of
the ice cream in its frozen condition shall be not less than 0.43 calculated as gram per mililitre .
(6) Where fruit, chocolate or other food is added to ice cream, or ice cream is externally coated, the
fruit, chocolate or other food, or coating, if it is capable of being readily separated for the purpose of
analysis, shall be deemed to be not part of the ice cream for the purpose of determining the content of
fat or the weight per unit volume.
(7) No person shall import, prepare or advertise for sale or sell any ice cream, the flavour of which
is indicated by the name of a fruit, unless the ice cream contains not less than 5 per cent of that fruit or
the juice of that fruit, or the word “flavour” is conjoined in uniform lettering, with the name of the
fruit.
(8) No package of ice cream shall be labelled with the word “dairy” or any word of similar meaning
unless its fat content is derived solely from milk.
(9) No picture of any fruit, or expression or device (other than the name of the fruit conjoined with
the word “flavour”) that indicates, suggests or implies the presence of a fruit or fruit juice in any ice
cream shall appear in the label on any package of ice cream that does not contain at least 5 per cent of
that fruit or fruit juice, as the case may be.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 117. Particular labelling requirements of milk and milk product.
(1) The term “fresh” may be used on the label or any package of pasteurized milk, UHT milk,
sterilized milk and flavoured milk; provided that in the case of flavoured milk, the term “fresh” shall
not be conjoined with the words “flavoured milk” except only to denote the milk from which it is
prepared as specified in subregulation 89(1).
(1A) There shall be written in the label on a package containing milk or milk products, other than
cow’s milk and the product prepared from cow’s milk, in not less than 10 point lettering, the common
name of the animal which is its source.
(2) The term “full cream” may only be used for milk product that complies with the standard for
full cream milk powder prescribed in regulation 90, before or after dilution.
(3) Subject to subregulation (1) and (2), no word other than the word or words “fresh” and “full
cream” shall be conjoined with the word “milk” unless the product complies with the standard
prescribed for such product in these Regulations.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, the word “butter” or “cream” shall not
appear on the label of any package of food other than creamer, cream cracker, cream soda, cream
Updated until December 2023
soup, cream biscuit and confectionery cream.
(5) A picture of an infant or parts of an infant shall not be displayed in the label on a package
containing milk or milk product.
(6) There shall be written in the label on a package containing milk or milk product or on the
accompanying leaflet a detailed instruction or direction for its preparation and storage before and
after the package has been opened.
(7) Notwithstanding paragraph 10(b), all particulars required to appear on the label on a package
of the milk products specified in regulations 84, 90, 91, 94, 95, 97, 98 and 99 shall be in Bahasa
Malaysia and may include translation thereof in any other language.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
SWEETENING SUBSTANCE
