# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 394.
(2) No person shall use, cause or allow to be used, any ice in the preparation or manufacture of any
food for sale, unless that ice complies with the condition specified in this regulation.
(3) No person shall cause or permit any ice to come into contact with food for sale, in the course of
its preparation, storage, delivery or exposure for sale, unless that ice complies with the condition
specified in this regulation.
(4) No person shall prepare ice from any source for the purpose of trade or business unless a licence
as set out in the Twenty-Ninth Schedule has been granted by the Director.
(5) An application for a licence under subregulation (4) shall be made to the Director in such form
and manner and be accompanied with such information and particulars, as the Director may specify,
together with a processing fee of thirty ringgit which is not refundable.
(6) In approving any application under subregulation (4), the Director may impose any condition as
he thinks fit relating to the source, extraction and collection, preparation, processing, packaging,
handling and transportation of ice and the subsequent monitoring thereof.
(7) The fee for a licence issued under subregulation (4) shall be fifty ringgit and shall be renewed
annually.
(8) The Director may at any time and without assigning any reason suspend or revoke any licence
issued or may amend the conditions to which such license is subject.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 113/2009]
PART X – MISCELLANEOUS
R egulation 395. Food not elsewhere standardized.
(1) Food not elsewhere standardized shall be food for which a standard has not been otherwise
expressly prescribed by these Regulations.
(2) Food not elsewhere standardized may contain permitted nutrient supplement, permitted
food conditioner, permitted flavouring substance, permitted colouring substance and permitted
flavour enhancer.
(3) Food not elsewhere standardized shall not contain permitted non-nutritive sweetening
substance except for acesulfame potassium, with the prior written approval of the Director.
Updated until December 2023
[(3) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:36]
(3A) No person shall use permitted preservative in food not elsewhere standardized without the
prior approval of the Director.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 131/02]
(4) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulation, there shall not be written in the label on a
package containing food elsewhere standardized or in an advertisement relating to that food any word
or expression that compares a nutritional property or the ingredients of a food not elsewhere
standardized with those of another food. [Ins. P.U(A) 169/2019]
(5) Food not elsewhere standardized shall not be described or presented in such manner or be
such name or pictorial or other representation or device as is suggestive of another article of food of
which it is intended to be an imitation or substitute or which it resembles.
(6) The word "food not elsewhere standardized" shall not appear on the label of any package
containing food not elsewhere standardized.
