# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 91. Skimmed milk powder, skim milk powder, dried non – fat milk solids or
s eparated milk powder.
(1) Skimmed milk powder, skim milk powder, dried non – fat milk solids or separated milk
powder shall be the product obtained by removing the water from skimmed milk.
(2) Skimmed milk powder, skim milk powder, dried non – fat milk solids or separated milk powder
shall not contain more than –
(a) 5 per cent of water; and
(b) 1.5 per cent of milk fat.
(3) Skimmed milk powder, skim milk powder, dried non – fat milk solids or separated milk powder
may contain permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing skimmed milk powder, skim milk
powder, dried non – fat milk solids or separated milk powder, the words “skimmed milk powder” or
“skim milk powder” or “dried non – fat milk solids” or “separated milk powder”, as the case may be,
immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS EXCEPTS ON MEDICAL ADVICE”.
The words shall form the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall appear in the same
line or lines.
(5) Every package of skimmed milk powder, skim milk powder, dried non – fat milk solids or
separated milk shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 91A. Malted milk powder.
(1) Malted milk powder shall be the dried product prepared from milk or dried milk or a
combination of both, with or without edible vegetable fat or edible vegetable oil and the soluble solids
of malt; and shall be free from rancidity.
(2) Malted milk powder –
(a) shall contain the following:
(i)not less than 7.5 per cent of milk fat or edible vegetable fat or edible vegetable oil or a
combination of both; and
(ii) soluble solids produced from wheat or other cereals by the enzymatic action of malt;
(b)may contain not more than 0.8 per cent of soya bean lecithin; and
(c) shall not contain more than 5 per cent of water.
Updated until December 2023
(3) Malted milk powder may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted food
conditioner.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
R egulation 91B. Formulated milk powder for children.
(1) Formulated milk powder for children shall be prepared from milk of cows or of other animals,
with or without the addition of other constituents of animal or plant origin, which have been proven
suitable for children, with or without other ingredients necessary to achieve the essential composition
of the product as set out in subregulation (4).
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, “children” means a person from the age of twelve months
to nine years.
(3) Formulated milk powder for children—
(a) shall contain—
(i) nutrients as specified in column (1) of Table I to the Sixteenth AA Schedule, in
amount not less than that specified in column (2) of the Table;
(ii) not less than 11.2 g per 100 g of fat and not more than 25 g per 100 g of fat; and
(iii)not less than 7g per 100 g of protein from milk; and
(b) may contain other suitable food substances including cocoa, honey, corn, soya,
cereals and fruits;
(c) may contain L(+) lactic acid producing cultures;
(d) may contain sucrose, glucose, fructose, glucose syrup and dextrose as permitted
sweetening substances. The total sucrose content in formulated milk powder for
children shall not exceed 12 g per 100 g. For flavoured variants of formulated milk
powder for children, the total sucrose content shall not exceed 20 g per 100 g;
(e) may contain optional ingredients as specified in column (1) of Table II to the Sixteenth AA
Schedule in an amount of not more than the maximum permitted proportion as specified
against it in column (2) of the Table; and
(f) may contain—
(i) permitted food conditioner;
(ii) permitted flavouring substance;
(iii) permitted colouring substance; and
(iv) the following permitted antioxidants:
(a) mixed tocopherols concentrate or a–tocopherol, singly or in
combination, not exceeding 20 mg per 100 g of milk powder; and
(b) L-ascorbyl palmitate or L-ascorbic acid and its sodium or calcium salts,
singly or in combination, not exceeding 33 mg per 100 g of milk powder,
Updated until December 2023
expressed as ascorbic acid.
(4) Nutrients specified in Table I to the Twelfth Schedule may be added into formulated milk
powder for children.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing formulated milk powder for
children—
(a) in not less than 12 point lettering, except for packages below 250 g—
(i) the words “Formulated milk powder for children”; and
(ii) the recommended age group;
(b) in not less than 10 point lettering and in bold the following statements:
(i) “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS BELOW TWELVE (12) MONTHS OF AGE”;
(ii) “BREASTS MILK IS THE BEST FOOD FOR INFANTS”; and
(iii) “THIS PRODUCT IS NOT THE ONLY FOOD FOR CHILDREN”;
(c) the amount of energy expressed in kilocalorie (kcal) per 100 g or per package, or
expressed in kilojoule (kJ) per 100 g or per package if the package contains only a single
portion and per serving as quantified on the label;
(d) the amount of protein, fat and carbohydrate expressed in gram per 100 g or per package if
the package contains only a single portion and per serving as quantified on the label;
(e) the amount of nutrients specified in column (1) of Table I to the Sixteenth AA Schedule
expressed in per 100 g or per package if the package contains only a single portion and
per serving as quantified on the label;
(f) the method of preparing the food which shall include a statement of the quantity or the
amount of food directed to be used in the preparation to be given to the children;
(g) a statement suggesting the amount of the prepared food to be given at one time, and the
number of times such amount is to be given per day; and
(h) direction for storage and information regarding its keeping before and after the package
has been opened.
(6) Formulated milk powder for children or ingredients used in making the product shall not
contain partially hydrogenated oils and fats, and shall not have been treated by ionizing radiation.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
R egulation 92. Recombined milk.
(1) Recombined milk shall be the product prepared from the constituents of milk combined with
water or milk or both and shall be subjected to pasteurization, sterilization or ultra high temperature.
It may contain salt and permitted food conditioner. In all other respects, it shall comply with the
standard for pasteurized milk, sterilized milk or ultra high temperature milk, as the case may be,
prescribed in regulation 85, 86 and 87.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing recombined milk the words
“recombined milk” and the words shall be conjoined in uniform lettering with the type of heat
Updated until December 2023
treatment applied.
R egulation 93. Reconstituted milk.
(1) Reconstituted milk shall be the liquid product prepared by the addition of water to full cream
milk powder and shall be subjected to pasteurization, sterilization or ultra high temperature. It may
contain salt and permitted food conditioner. In all other respects, it shall comply with the standard for
pasteurized milk, sterilized milk or ultra high temperature milk, as the case may be, prescribed in
regulations 85, 86 and 87.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing reconstituted milk the words
“reconstituted milk” and the words shall be conjoined in uniform lettering with the type of heat
treatment applied.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 94. Evaporated milk or unsweetened condensed milk.
(1) Evaporated milk or unsweetened condensed milk shall be the product obtained by evaporating
from milk, a portion of its water or by recombining of milk constituents and part evaporation.
(2) Evaporated milk or unsweetened condensed milk shall contain not less than –
(a) 8 per cent of milk fat;
(b) 28 per cent of total milk solids; and
(c) 670 International Units of Vitamin A per 100 g.
(3) Evaporated milk or unsweetened condensed milk may contain the following permitted food
conditioner:
(a) sodium, potassium and calcium salts of hydrochloric acid, citric acid, carbonic acid,
orthophosphoric acid, and polyphosporic acid, either singly in a proportion not exceeding
0.2 per cent or in combination, in a proportion not exceeding 0.3 per cent calculated on a
water – free basis;
(b) carrageenan in a proportion not exceeding 0.015 per cent;
(c) lecithin in a proportion not exceeding 0.2 per cent;
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing evaporated milk or unsweetened
condensed milk –
(a) the words “evaporated milk” or “unsweetened condensed milk”, as the case may be,
immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS”. The words shall form
the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall appear in the same line or lines;
and
(b) the words “to prepare a liquid milk shall contain not less than 3.25 per cent of milk fat and
not less than 8.5 per cent of non – fat milk solids, add (state the number) parts of water by
volume to 1 part of this unsweetened condensed milk by volume”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 521/92.]
R egulation 95. Condensed milk or sweetened condensed milk.
(1) Condensed milk or sweetened condensed milk shall be the product obtained by evaporating
from milk, a portion of its water or by recombining milk constituents and adding sugar to the
remainder.
Updated until December 2023
(2) Condensed milk or sweetened condensed milk shall contain not less than –
(a) 8 per cent of milk fat;
(b) 28 per cent of total milk solids; and
(c) 670 International Units of Vitamin A per 100 g.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing condensed milk or sweetened
condensed milk –
(a) the words “condensed milk” or “sweetened condensed milk”, as the case may be,
immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS”. The words shall form
the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall appear in the same line or lines;
and
(b) the words “to prepare a liquid milk which shall contain not less than 3.25 per cent of milk
fat and not less than 8.5 per cent of non – fat milk solids add (state the number) parts of
water by volume to 1 part of this sweetened condensed milk by volume”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 521/92
R egulation 96. Lactose hydrolysed milk.
(1) Lactose hydrolysed milk shall be the product made from milk treated with enzyme lactase
to give a low lactose milk, containing glucose and galactose.
(2) Lactose hydrolysed milk –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i) 3.25 per cent of milk fat; and
(ii) 8.5 per cent of non – fat milk solids; and
(b) shall not contain more than 1.25 per cent of lactose.
(3) Lactose hydrolysed milk may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted
colouring substance.
(4) Where lactose hydrolysed milk is flavoured, it –
(a)shall contain not less than –
(i) 2 per cent of milk fat; and
(ii) 8 per cent of non – fat milk solids; and
(b)shall not contain more than 1.25 per cent of lactose.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing lactose hydrolysed milk the
words “lactose hydrolysed milk”, and in the case of flavoured lactose hydrolysed milk, the words
“flavoured lactose hydrolysed milk” or the name of the flavour conjoined with the words
“flavoured lactose hydrolysed milk”. The words shall form the first line of the label and no other
words shall appear in the same line.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 97. Filled milk.
(1) Filled milk shall be a product which in general composition, appearance, characteristic and
intended use is similar to milk specified in regulation 82 and in which the milk fat has been
Updated until December 2023
replaced wholly or partly by an equivalent amount of edible vegetable oil or edible vegetable fat or
a combination of these. It shall be subjected to sterilization or ultra high temperature.
(2) Filled milk shall contain not less than –
(a) 3.25 per cent of fat;
(b) 9 per cent of non – fat milk solids; and
(c) 670 International Units of Vitamin A per 100 g.
(3) Filled milk may contain permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing filled milk –
(a) the words “filled milk” to be conjoined with the type of heat treatment applied,
immediately followed with the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS”. The words shall
form the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall appear in the same line or
lines; and
(b) a statement as to the type of edible vegetable fat or edible vegetable oil present as
an ingredient.
R egulation 97A. Filled milk powder.
(1) Filled milk powder shall be a product which in general composition, appearance,
characteristic and intended use is similar to full cream milk powder or dried full cream milk as
specified in regulation 90, and in which the milk fat has been replaced wholly or partly by an
equivalent amount of edible vegetable oil or edible vegetable fat or a combination of both.
(2) Filled milk powder shall contain not less than 670 International Units of Vitamin A per
100g.
(3) Filled milk powder may contain permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing filled milk powder –
(a) the words “Filled milk powder “ immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE
FOR INFANTS “and other word or words shall not appear in the same line or lines ; and
(b) the words “to prepare liquid filled milk powder which shall contain not less than 3.25
per cent of milk fat and not less than 8.5 per cent non-fat milk solids, add (state the
number) parts of water by volume to 1 part of this liquid filled milk powder by volume.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
R egulation 98. Evaporated filled milk or unsweetened condensed filled milk.
(1) Evaporated filled milk or unsweetened condensed filled milk shall in all respects comply with
the standard for evaporated milk except that the milk fat content is replaced by edible vegetable oil or
edible vegetable fat.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing evaporated filled milk or
unsweetened condensed filled milk –
(a) the words “evaporated filled milk” or “unsweetened condensed filled milk”, as the case
may be, immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS”. The words
Updated until December 2023
shall form the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall appear in the same
line or lines;
(b) the words “contains vegetable fat” or “contains vegetable oil”, as the case may be; and
(c) the words “to prepare a liquid milk which shall contain not less than 8.5 per cent of non –
fat milk solids, add (state the number) parts of water by volume to 1 part of this
unsweetened condensed filled milk by volume”.
R egulation 99. Condensed filled milk or sweetened condensed filled milk.
(1) Condensed filled milk or sweetened condensed filled milk shall in all respects comply with the
standard for sweetened condensed milk except that the milk fat content is replaced by edible
vegetable oil or edible vegetable fat.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing condensed filled milk or sweetened
condensed filled milk –
(a) the words “condensed filled milk” or “sweetened condensed filled milk” as the case may
be, immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS”. The words shall
form the first line or lines of the label and no other shall appear in the same line or lines;
(b) the words “contains vegetable fat” or “contains vegetable oil”, as the case may be; and
(c) the words “to prepare a liquid milk which shall contain not less than 8.5 per cent of non –
fat milk solids, add (state the number) parts of water by volume to 1 part of this
sweetened condensed filled milk by volume”.
R egulation 100. Cream or raw cream.
(1) Cream or raw cream shall be the fatty liquid prepared from milk by separating the milk
constituents, through a separation process in such a manner so as to extract the milk fat content.
(2) Cream or raw cream –
(a) shall contain not less than 35 per cent of milk fat; and
(b) shall not contain any added substance.
(3) Cream or raw cream when subjected to the Reductase Test shall not completely decolourize
the methylene blue in less than 4 hours.
(4) Cream or raw cream may contain permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 101. Pasteurized cream.
(1) Pasteurized cream shall be cream which has been efficiently heat – treated either by the
Holding Method or by the High Temperature Short Time Method.
(2) Pasteurized cream shall conform to the following tests:
(a) when subjected to the Reductase Test for cream the sample shall not completely
decolourize the methylene blue in less than 5 hours;
(b) (Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88).
(c) when subjected to the Phosphatase Test, it shall give a reading not exceeding 10 µg of p
– nitrophenol per ml of cream.
Updated until December 2023
(3) Pasteurized cream may contain permitted food conditioner. [Am.P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(4) There shall be written in the label or embossed elsewhere on the package of pasteurized
cream the words “pasteurized cream”. Alternatively, the disc, cap or device used for sealing the
package may be labelled or embossed, in not less than 4 point lettering, with these words.
(5) Any reference in these Regulations to “cream” as food or as an ingredient that shall or may be
included in food shall be deemed to be a reference to “pasteurized cream” but shall not include the
cream specified in regulation 100.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 102. Reduced cream or pouring cream.
(1) Reduced cream or pouring cream shall be the product containing not less than 18 per cent
and not more than 34 per cent of milk fat. In all other respects it shall comply with the standard for
pasteurized cream prescribed in regulation 101.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing reduced cream or pouring cream
the words “reduced cream” or “pouring cream”, as the case may be.
R egulation 103. Butter.
(1) In these Regulations, “butter” means the solid product derived exclusively from milk or
cream, or both, and shall be free from rancidity.
(2) Butter –
(a) shall contain not less than 80 per cent of milk fat;
(b) shall not contain more than 16 per cent of water; and
(c) may contain salt.
(3) Butter may contain permitted colouring substance of vegetable origin and permitted
antioxidant.
R egulation 104. Recombined butter.
(1) Recombined butter shall be the product obtained from anhydrous milk fat, which consists of
99.9 per cent of pure milk fat, with potable water and milk solids or skimmed milk. It may contain
permitted food conditioner. In all other respects, it shall comply with the standard for butter
prescribed in regulation 103.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing recombined butter the words
“recombined butter”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 105. Ghee.
(1) Ghee shall be the pure clarified milk fat obtained by removal of water and non-fat milk solids
from milk, butter or cream.
(2) Ghee –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 0.3 per cent of water; and
(ii) 3 per cent of free fatty acid (as oleic acid); and
Updated until December 2023
(b) shall have –
(i) a Reichert value of not less than 23.5;
(ii) a Polenske value of from 1.5 to 4; and
(iii) butyro number of from 42 to 45 at 40oC.
(2) Ghee may contain permitted antioxidant.
R egulation 106. Cheese.
(1) Cheese shall be the fresh or matured solid or semi – solid product obtained by coagulating milk,
cream, skimmed or partly skimmed milk or any components of milk, or a mixture of any such
substance with rennet or any other protein coagulating enzymes and includes the food for which a
standard is prescribed in regulations 107 and 108.
(2) Cheese may contain ripening ferments, harmless acid – producing bacterial cultures, special
mould cultures and may be coated with harmless wax or plastic.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, cheese –
(a) shall contain not less than 40 per cent of milk fat on a water – free basis;
[Am. P.U.(A) 113/2009.]
(b) may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance of vegetable origin
and permitted flavouring substance; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 113/2009.
(c) may contain transglutaminase as a permitted food conditioner.
[ Ins. P.U.(A) 113/2009.]
( 4)Hard cheese shall be containing not more than 39 per cent of water.
R egulation 107. Cottage cheese.
(1) Cottage cheese shall be cheese made from pasteurized milk from which part of its fat has been
removed, or by the addition of dried non – fat milk solids.
(2) Cottage cheese shall not contain more than 80 per cent of water.
(3) Where cottage cheese is sold as “creamed” or designated as “creamed cottage cheese” the
product shall comply with the standard prescribed in subregulation (1) and (2), and shall contain not
less than 20 per cent of milk fat on a water – free basis.
(4) Cottage cheese may contain permitted preservative.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing cottage cheese the words “cottage
c heese”.
R egulation 108. Cream cheese.
(1) Cream cheese shall be cheese made from cream or from milk to which cream has been added.
(2) Cream cheese –
(a) shall contain not more than –
(i) 55 per cent of water; and
(ii) 0.5 per cent of stabiliser or emulsifier as permitted food conditioner; and
Updated until December 2023
(b)shall contain not less than 65 per cent of milk fat on a water – free basis.
(3) Cream cheese may contain permitted preservative.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing cream cheese the words “cream
cheese”.
R egulation 109. Processed cheese.
(1) Processed cheese shall be the product obtained by grinding, mixing, melting and emulsifying
one or more varieties of cheese and may contain –
(a) cultures of harmless bacteria;
(b) cream, butter and other milk products;
(c) salt;
(d) sugar;
(e) vinegar; and
(f) any other food.
(2) Processed cheese shall contain not less than 51 per cent of the dry matter derived from cheese.
(3) Processed cheese may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance,
permitted flavouring substance, permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 110. Cheese paste, cheese spread or cheese mixture.
(1) Cheese paste, cheese spread or cheese mixture shall be the product obtained by mixing cheese
with condiments and other cheese food.
(2) Cheese paste, cheese spread or cheese mixture –
(a) shall contain not less than 75 per cent of cheese; and
(b) shall not contain more than –
(i) 3 per cent of permitted emulsifier; and
(ii) 50 per cent of water.
(3) Cheese paste, cheese spread or cheese mixture may contain permitted preservative,
permitted colouring substance of vegetable origin, permitted flavouring substance and permitted food
conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing cheese paste, cheese spread or
c heese mixture the words “cheese paste” or “cheese spread” or “cheese mixture”, as the case may be.
R egulation 111. Club cheese or luncheon cheese.
(1) Club cheese or luncheon cheese shall be the ermitt obtained by mixing cheese with other food.
(2) Club cheese or luncheon cheese –
(a) shall contain not less than –
Updated until December 2023
(i) 95 per cent of cheese; and
(ii) 40 per cent of milk fat on a water – free basis; and
(b) shall not contain more than 35 per cent of water.
(3) Club cheese or luncheon cheese may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring
substance of vegetable origin, permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing club cheese or luncheon cheese
the words “club cheese” or “luncheon cheese”, as the case may be.
R egulation 112. Dried cheese or powdered cheese.
(1) Dried cheese or powdered cheese shall be the product obtained by the drying of cheese. It
shall not contain more than 8 per cent of water.
(2) Dried cheese or powdered cheese may contain –
(a) permitted preservative; and
(b) not more than 4 per cent of emulsifier as permitted food conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing dried cheese or powdered cheese the
words “dried cheese” or “powdered cheese”, as the case may be.
R egulation 113. Cultured milk or fermented milk.
(1) Cultured milk or fermented milk shall be the product prepared by culturing pasteurized milk,
sterilized milk, skimmed milk, recombined milk, pasteurized cream or reduced cream with suitable
lactic acid bacteria. It shall include yoghurt, cultured cream or sour cream.
(2) Cultured milk or fermented –
(a) may contain living culture of any of the organisms mentioned in subregulation (1);
(b) may contain added milk solids, permitted sweetening substance, salt and fruit; and
(c) shall have an acidity of not less than 0.5 per cent calculated as lactic acid.
(3)Cultured milk or fermented milk may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring
substance and permitted food conditioner.
(4)There shall be written in the label on a package containing fermented milk the words “fermented
milk”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
