# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 139 and is ready-to-eat, of the size and shape of less than or equal to 45 millimetres in
diameter of a cross section of a spherical or non-spherical product. Controlled jelly confection includes
mini cups jelly and other similar products.
(2) No person shall import, manufacture, advertise for sale or sell any controlled jelly confection
that contain conjac or also referred to as glucomannan, konnyaku, konjonac, taro powder or yam flour.
(3) **There shall be written in the principal display panel in the label of a package containing
controlled jelly confection the words “ CAUTION: MAY POSE CHOCKING RISK” and the words “NOT
SUITABLE FOR CHILDREN BELOW 3 YEARS” in capital bold-faced lettering of a non-serif character
and shall not be smaller than 12 point.
**Enforce on 1st November 2020 [Ins. P.U(A)299/2019;Ins. P.U.(A) 405/2009]
R egulation 140. Particular labelling requirement of confection.
(1) No package of flour confection, sugar confection, frozen confection, ice confection or table
confection shall be labelled with the word “fruit”, “egg” or “milk” or any word of similar meaning,
unless it contains a substantial quantity of fruit, egg or milk, as the case may be.
(2) No package of any confection to which has been added a permitted flavouring substance shall be
labelled with the name of any fruit or other natural substance imitated in flavour unless the name is
conjoined in uniform lettering with the word “flavour”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
Updated until December 2023
(3) No picture of a fruit, or expression or device (other than the name of a fruit conjoined with the
word “flavour”) that indicates, suggests or implies the presence of a fruit or fruit juice shall appear in
the label on a package of frozen confection, ice confection or table confection unless such confection
contain at least 5 per cent of that fruit or fruit juice, as the case may be.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
MEAT AND MEAT PRODUCT
R egulation 141. Meat or fresh meat.
(1) Meat or fresh meat shall be the edible part of the skeletal muscle of an animal, other than fish,
that is normally used for human consumption and that was healthy at the time of slaughter. It may
contain accompanying and overlying fat together with portions of bone, skin, sinew, nerve and blood
vessels that normally accompany the muscle tissue and are not separated from it in the process of
dressing. It may be accompanied by edible organs.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, lean meat shall be meat from which the overlying fat has
been removed. It shall not contain more than 15 per cent of total fat.
(3) Meat may contain permitted colouring substance used in grading or identifying meat as specified
in subregulation 21(5).
[
R egulation 142. Chilled meat.
Chilled meat shall be meat that has been maintained in a wholesome condition at a temperature
between minus 1oC to 10oC and includes frozen meat that has been thawed at a temperature of not
more than 10oC.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 143. Frozen meat.
Frozen meat shall be meat that for one continuous period from the time of preparation for sale has
been maintained at a temperature below minus 18oC and shall not have been thawed before sale.
R egulation 144. Minced meat or ground meat.
(1) Minced meat or ground meat shall be fresh, chilled, or frozen meat that has been disintegrated
by mincing of chopping.
(2) Minced meat or ground meat shall not contain –
(a)meat of different animal origin;
(b) more than 30 per cent of fat.
(3) For the purposes of these Regulations, minced meat or ground meat that is described as “lean”
shall not contain more than 15 per cent of total fat.
R egulation 145. Meat product.
(1) Meat product shall be the product prepared from meat and includes any food for which a
standard is prescribed in regulations 146 to 153.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, meat product of pork origin, Sus scrofa, shall include ham
and bacon.
R egulation 146. Meat paste.
(1) Meat paste shall be the meat product in the form of paste prepared from meat, cooked or
uncooked, with or without other food and shall contain not less than 75 per cent of meat.
(2) Meat paste may contain permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner including
ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, isoascorbic acid, sodium isoascorbate and transglutaminase.
Updated until December 2023
[(2) Am.P.U.(A) 113/2009.]
R egulation 147. Manufactured meat.
(1) Manufactured meat shall be the meat product prepared from meat, whether cut, chopped,
minced or comminuted, cooked or uncooked, with or without the addition of salt, sugar, vinegar,
sorbitol, spice, edible fat or edible oil and other food, and is sold as cuts in packages or shaped in
casings or packages.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, manufactured meat shall include meatburger, sausage
and corned, cured, pickled or salted meat.
(3) Manufactured meat shall, whether in cuts or in the form of sausages, with or without skins, or in
the form of meat loaves or in any other form contain not less than 65 percent of meat. It shall contain
not less than 1.7 per cent of nitrogen in organic combination and shall not contain more than 30 per
cent of fat.
(4) The provisions of subregulating (3) relating to the proportion of fat that may be contained in
manufactured meat shall not apply to manufactured meat sold in casing and described as salami or
salami – type sausage, lup cheong, and sausages from edible organs.
[Am.P.U.(A) 162/1988.]
(5) For the purposes of these Regulations, meatburger does not include any separable bread or
other separable food that may enclose, or be enclosed with the meat product.
(6) Where manufactured meat is sold in casing that is edible, the casing shall, for the purpose of
computing any of the preparation specified in this regulation, be deemed to be an integral portion of
the said meat.
(7) Manufactured meat may contain –
(a)where such meat or part of such meat is corned, cured, pickled or salted, sodium nitrite,
potassium nitrite, sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate, alone or in combination, as permitted
preservative, provided that the final product does not contain more than 200 ppm of total
nitrate and nitrite calculated together as sodium nitrite;
(b) in its uncooked from other than meatburger, permitted preservative;
(ba) permitted colouring substance;
[Ins.P.U.(A) 162/1988.]
(c)permitted flavouring substance;
(d) permitted flavour enhancer; and
(e)the following permitted food conditioner:
(i) any phosphate in such a proportion that the total phosphorus content calculated as
phosphorus pentoxide does not exceed 0.3 per cent;
(ii) ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, isoascorbic acid and sodium isoascorbate;
(iii) natural lactic acid; [Ins.P.U.(A) 131/2002./Am. P.U.(A) 113/2009]
(iv) transglutaminase. Ins.P.U.(A) 131/2009;]
Updated until December 2023
(8) For the purposes of these Regulations, casing may contain permitted colouring substance.
(8A) Canned manufactured meat shall contain not less than 90 per cent of manufactured meat.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 162/1988.]
(9) There shall be written in the label on a package containing meatburger, the common name of
the meat from which it is prepared conjoined with the word “burger”.
(10) Where manufactured meat is sold in casing, there shall be written in the label on a package
containing such food, the type of casing used. In the case of casing of animal origin, the name of the
animal from which it is prepared shall be declared on the label.
(11) There shall be written in uniform lettering in the label on a package containing canned
manufactured meat the words “manufactured meat “ or any other word or words having the same or a
similar effect. [Ins.P.U.(A) 162/1988.]
(12) The word “meat “ shall not appear in the label on a package containing canned manufactured
meat unless it is conjoined with the word “ manufactured “.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 162/1988.
R egulation 148. Smoked meat.
(1) Smoked meat shall be the meat product obtained by subjecting meat or manufactured meat to
the action of smoke derived from wood that is free from paint or timber preservatives. It may contain
formaldehyde incidentally absorbed in the processing in a proportion not exceeding 5 mg/kg.
( 2) Smoked meat may contain permitted flavour enhancer.
R egulation 149. Canned meat.
(1) Canned meat shall be meat or smoked meat packed in clean containers that are hermetically
sealed and processed by heat to ensure preservation. It may contain salt, potable water and brine.
(2) Canned meat shall contain not less than 90 per cent of meat.
(3) Canned meat may contain –
(a) sodium nitrate, potassium nitrate, sodium nitrite, or potassium nitrite, alone or in
combination, as permitted preservative, provided that the final product does not contain
more than 200 ppm of total nitrate and nitrite calculated together as sodium nitrite;
(b) permitted flavouring substance;
(c) permitted flavour enhancer; and
(d) any phosphate as permitted food conditioner in such a proportion that the total
phosphorus content calculated as phosphorus pentoxide does not exceed 0.3 per cent.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
