# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 2. Interpretation.
(1) In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires -
"Act" means the Food Act 1983 [Act 281].
"alcohol" means ethyl alcohol;
"appropriate designation" means a name or description, being a specific and not a generic name or
description, which shall indicate to the prospective purchaser the true nature of the food to which it is
applied;
"bulk container" includes-
(a) any wagon, crate, silo, tanker and other similar container; and
(b) any box, carton and other similar container in which more than one duly labelled package
and its content are placed and in which the packages and their contents are not intended to be
retained when the packages or the contents are sold by way of retail;
“Codex Alimentarius” means the international food standards adopted by the Codex Alimentarius
Commission;’ [Ins. P.U. (A) 227/2016]
"commercially sterile" means any condition which is free of viable microorganisms including spores of
public health significance and microorganisms capable of reproducing in the food under normal
conditions of storage and distribution;
"extra wrapper" means an interior or exterior wrapper used only to facilitate packing and is not
intended or adequate to serve as a sole container of the content of the package;
“genetically modified organisms” means an organism in which the genetic material has been changed
through modern biotechnology in a way that it does not occur naturally by multiplication or natural
recombination or both;
["geneticallymodified' Ins.P.U.(A) 229/2010]
Updated until December 2023
“health professional” means a hospital administrator, medical doctor, nutritionist, food technologist,
dietician, pharmacist, health education officer, medical social worker and matron working in the
health care system;
["health professional" Ins.P.U.(A) 313/2012]
“infant” means a new born person up to twelve months of age;
["infant" Ins.P.U.(A) 313/2012]
“modern biotechnology” has the same meaning assigned to it under the Biosafety Act 2007 [Act 678].
["modern biotechnology" Ins.P.U.(A) 229/2010]
"outer package" means any container in which more than one duly labelled package of the same type
of food are placed for the purpose of sale retail;
"parts per cent (ppc)", " parts per million (ppm)" and "parts per billion (ppb)" means parts per
centum, parts per million and parts per billion by weight respectively.
“young children” means a person from the age of more than twelve months up to the age of three
years.
["young children" Ins.P.U.(A) 313/2012]
(2) Any reference in these Regulations to parts per million and parts per billion shall be deemed to
be equivalent to miligram per kilogram (mg/kg) and microgram per kilogram (micg/kg)respectively.
(3) Any reference in these Regulations to any specific article shall be construed as including a
reference to any other article which is substantially identical with, and may be used for the same
purpose as, the article specifically referred to.
(4) Any reference in these Regulations to the composition, strength, potency, purity, quality, weight,
quantity, shelflife or other property of any food or any ingredient or component thereof shall be the
prescribed standard with respect to that food or ingredient orcomponent.
(5) Where in these Regulations a standard is prescribed for any food without any expressed
stipulation forbidding any added matter or substance, there shall be implied therein the stipulation
that the food for which such standard is prescribed shall not contain any added matter or substance,
other than potable water, except as may be specifically permitted by these Regulations.
[ Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.
PART II
WARRANTY
R egulation 3. Food which requires a written warranty from manufacturer, etc.
The food in respect of which the manufacturer, distributor or dealer is required to give a written
warranty or other written statement under section 30 of the Act, when selling such food to any vendor,
shall be as specified in the First Schedule.
PART II A- APPROVAL FOR SALE OF FOOD OBTAINED THROUGH MODERN BIOTECHNOLOGY
Regulation 3A. Approval for sale of food obtained through modern biotechnology.
No person shall import, prepare or advertise for sale or sell any food and food ingredients obtained
through modern biotechnology without the prior written approval of the Director.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 229/2010]
Updated until December 2023
PART III
PROCEDURE FOR TAKING SAMPLES
R egulation 4. Procedure on taking samples for physical and chemical analysis.
(1) Where an authorized officer has taken or otherwise procured a sample of food in accordance
with section 5 of the Act for the purpose of physical or chemical analysis, he shall -
(a) divide the sample into three separate parts and mark and seal or fasten up each part in
such a manner as its nature will permit.
(b) offer one part to the seller, importer or manufacturer or his agent or the person having
charge of the food;
(c) deliver either personally or through another authorized officer or by A.R.
(Acknowledgement of Receipt) registered mail or by courier services with
acknowledgment of receipt one of the remaining parts to an analyst; and[Am. P.U(A)
256/17.]
(d) retain the other remaining part.
(2) Where a sample consists of any food contained in unopened packages and if in the opinion of
the authorized officer the division of a sample for analysis into three separate parts in accordance with
subregulation (1)-
(a) is not reasonably practicable; or [Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(b) might affect the composition or impede the proper analysis of the content,
the provisions of subregulation (1) shall be deemed to be complied with if the authorised officer
taking or otherwise procuring the sample divides the package into the requisite number of lots and
deals with each lot in the manner provided by this regulation as if it were a part and any reference in
these Regulations to a part of a sample shall be construed accordingly.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulations (1) and (2), where-
(a) a particular package of food has or appears to have in it or upon it any foreign substance
or any substance which is suspected of being poisonous, harmful or injurious to health; or
(b) it is not practicable to divide the sample into the requisite number of parts or lots,
the authorised officer shall only take one sample without dividing it into separate parts and shall
subsequently deliver the sample so taken either personally or through another authorised officer or
by A.R. (Acknowledgement of Receipt) registered mail to an analyst.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
R egulation 5. Procedure on taking samples for microbiological analysis.
Where a sample of food is required for microbiological analysis, the authorised officer taking or
otherwise procuring the sample in accordance with section 5 of the Act shall –
(a) only take one sample and shall not divide such sample into separate parts;
(b) mark and seal the sample in such a manner as its nature will permit; and
(c) deliver such sample personally or through another authorised officer by A.R.
(Acknowledgement of Receipt) registered mail or by courier services with acknowledgment of
receipt to an analyst with the least practicable delay. [Am. P.U(A) 256/17.]
Updated until December 2023
