# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 32. Recycling of packages prohibited.
(1) Subject to subregulation (2), no person shall use, or cause or permit to be used, in the
preparation, packaging, storage, delivery or exposure for sale –
(a) of any sugar, flour or meal, any sack that has previously been used for any purpose;
(b) of any edible fat or edible oil, any bottle or metal container, other than silos and tankers
for edible fat and edible oil, that has previously been used for any purpose;
(c) of any food of non-swine origin, any package, appliance, container or vessel that is
intended for use or has been used for any product of swine origin (sus scrofa);
(d) (of any food, other than that packaged in an extra wrapper, any plastic bottle that has
previously been used for any purpose;
(e) of any food, other than alcoholic beverage and shandy, any bottle that has previously
been used for alcoholic beverage or shandy.
(2) Polycarbonate containers of not less than 20 litre in size that has previously been used for
natural mineral water may be used for the same purpose.
[Sub. 162/88; Am. 190/91.]
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 33. Packages that may be recycled for similar products.
Except as otherwise provided in regulations 33A, no person shall use, or cause or permit to be used,
in the preparation, packaging, storage, delivery or exposure for sale –
(a) of any milk, soft drink, alcoholic beverage or shandy, any glass bottle that has
previously been used for another food;
(b) of any vegetable, fish or fruit, any box or crate that has previously been used for
another food;
(c) of any polished rice, any gunny sack that has previously been used for another food.
[Sub. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
Regulation 33A. Packages of another food that may be recycled for alcoholic beverage, shandy,
v egetable and fruit.
(1) Any glass bottle that has previously been used for alcoholic beverage may be used for shandy
and vice-versa.
(2) Any box or crate that has previously been used for vegetable may be used in the preparation,
packaging and storage of fruit and vice-versa.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 34. Presumption as to the use of any packages.
For the purposes of regulation 32 and 33, where a package, appliance, container or vessel
containing food bears any mark or label belonging to another food it shall be presumed that such
package, appliance, container or vessel has been used for that particular food as shown by such mark
o r label.
R egulation 35. Use of damaged package prohibited.
(1) No person shall import, prepare or advertise for sale or sell any food contained in any damaged
package or container.
(2) For the purposes of subregulation (1), the term “damaged” includes –
(a) chipping or distortion that affects the integrity of the package or container, or the
wholesomeness of the product or both; or
( b) perforation, corrosion or leakage, or a combination of these.
