# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 11 and 14 may be printed in a reduced size of not smaller than 2 point lettering on the cap
or crown of such bottle.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing flavoured syrup or flavoured
cordial or flavoured drink the words “flavoured syrup” or “flavoured cordial” or “flavoured drink” or
the name of such flavour in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point conjoined with the words
“flavoured syrup” or “flavoured cordial” or “flavoured drink”, as the case may be.
(4) The label on a package of a flavoured syrup or flavoured drink shall not include –
(a)any expression, pictorial representation or design that suggests or implies that the syrup or
drink consists wholly or partly fruit juice; or
(b) a pictorial representation or design of a plant or part of a plant or a floral design that
suggests or implies the presence of a plant in the syrup or drink.
(5) There shall be written in the label on a package containing flavoured syrup or flavoured
drink to which caffeine has been added a statement as to the presence of caffeine in that beverage.
(6) Flavoured syrup and flavoured drink to which a permitted fruit flavouring substance has
been added shall be labelled in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point with the name of such fruit
or fruits, immediately followed by the word “flavour” or “flavoured”.
(7) Where fruit juice drink, fruit drink or flavoured drink is carbonated, there shall be written in
the label on a package containing such drink –
(a)the words “carbonated fruit juice drink” or “carbonated fruit drink” or “carbonated
flavoured drink” as the case may be; or
(b) the words “carbonated (state the name of the fruit) juice drink “ or “carbonated (state
the name of the fruit) drink” or “carbonated (state the name of the flavour) flavoured
drink”, as the case may be.
(8) Where flavoured drink or botanical beverage contains quinine in a proportion exceeding 40
mg/litre –
(a)the proportion of quinine added in mg/litre shall be stated on the label; and
(b) such product may be labelled as “tonic water”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 131/02.]
NATURAL MINERAL WATER
R egulation 360A. Natural mineral water.
(1) Natural mineral water shall be ground water which is obtained for human consumption from
subterranean water-bearing strata through a spring, well, bore or other exit, with or without the
addition of carbon dioxide.
Updated until December 2023
(2) No person shall take any natural mineral water from any source for the purpose of trade or
business unless a licence as set out in the Twenty –seven Schedule has been granted by the director.
(3) An application for a licence under subregulation (2) shall be made to the Director in such form
and manner and be accompanied with such information and particulars, as the Director may specify,
together with a processing fee of one hundred and thirty ringgit which is not refundable.
(3A) In approving any application under subregulation (2) the Director may impose any conditions
as he think fit relating to the source, extraction and collection, preparation, processing and packaging
of natural mineral water and the subsequent monitoring thereof.
(3B) The Director may at any time and without assigning any reason suspend or revoke any
licence granted or may amend any conditions to which such licence is subject.
(3C) The fee for a licence issued under subregulation (2) shall be six thousand ringgit.
(a)natural mineral water shall be –
(b)obtained directly from the point of natural emergence or artificial abstraction of the water
and collected under conditions which guarantee its orginal bacteriological purity; and
(c) packaged as close as may be practicable to the point of emergence of the source in
accordance with good hygienic practice.
(5) No person shall transport any natural mineral water in bulk for the purpose or processing or
packaging.
(6) Natural mineral water may only be subjected to one or more of the following treatments:
(a)separation from unstable constituents by decantation or filtration or by both decantation
and filtration;
(b) chlorination followed by dechlorination;
(c) aeration;
(d) deaeration;
(e)carbonation;
(f) decarbonation;
(g) ultraviolet sterilization;
(h) ozone treatment;
(i) pasteurization;
Provided that the treatment specified in this subregulation may only be carried out if the mineral
content of the water is not modified in its essential constituents.
(7) Natural mineral water in its packaged state shall comply with the standard as prescribed in
the Twenty-sixth Schedule.
Updated until December 2023
(8) Natural mineral water shall not contain any of the following contaminants:
(a)phenolic compounds;
(b) surface active agents;
(c) pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls;
(d) mineral oil;
(e)polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons.
(9) No natural mineral water shall be fortified or enriched.
(10) Natural mineral water shall be packed in hermetically sealed containers which are suitable
for preventing the possible adulteration or contamination of the water.
(11) There shall be written in the label on a package containing natural mineral water –
(a) the words “ natural mineral water “ or, where the product contains added carbon
dioxide, the words “ carbonated natural mineral water “ in uniform lettering of not less than
12 point ;
[Am.P.U.(A) 384/00];
(b) the amount of total dissolved solids present in mg/l;
(c) the name of the mineral contents present and the amount in mg/l in which each is
present;
(d) the pH value of the natural mineral water; and
(e) the location of the source and the nature of the source.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 190/91; 110/93;123/95];
PACKAGED DRINKING WATER
R egulation 360B. Packaged drinking water.
(1) Packaged drinking water shall be potable water or treated potable water, other than natural
mineral water, that is hermetically sealed in bottles or other packages and is intended for human
consumption.
(1A) No person shall take any drinking water from any source for the purpose of trade or
business unless a licence as set out in the Twenty-eighth Schedule has been granted by the Director.
(1B) An application for a licence under subregulation (1A) shall be made to the Director in such
form and manner and be accompanied with such information and particulars as the Director may
specify, together with a processing fee of one hundred and thirty ringgit which is not refundable.
(1C) In approving an application under subregulation (1A) , the Director may impose such
conditions as he thinks fit relating to the source, collection, preparation, processing and packaging of
drinking water and the subsequent monitoring thereof.
(1D) A person who has been issued with a licence under subregulation (1A) and who
contravenes any of the terms and conditions imposed by the Director may have his licence suspended
or revoked, and the Director may amend at any time the conditions to which the licence is subject.
Updated until December 2023
(1E) The fee for a licence granted under subregulation (1A) shall be six thousand ringgit.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 384/00];
(2) Packaged drinking water may contain added chlorides, bicarbonates and sulphur salts of
calcium, magnesium, potassium and sodium, and carbon dioxide.
(3) Packaged drinking water shall comply with the standard as prescribed in the the Twenty –
fifth Schedule.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing drinking water –
(a)the words “ drinking water “ or, where the product contains added carbon dioxide, the
words “ carbonated drinking water “ in uniform lettering of not less than 12 point ;
[Am.P.U.(A) 384/00];
(b) where the product contains added chlorides, bicarbonates and sulphur salts of calcium,
magnesium, potassium or sodium, the name of the mineral constituent present and the
amount in mg/l in which each is present; and
(c) the nature of its source. [Ins.P.U.(A) 384/00]
R egulation 360C. Vended Water.
(1) For the purpose of this regulation—
“water-vending machine” means any self-service machine that upon insertion of a coin, token or
by any other means automatically dispenses unit volume of water for drinking or other purposes
involving a likelihood of the water being consumed by human; and
“machine-vended water” means any water that is dispensed by a water-vending machine, which is
not placed by a bottler in sealed containers for human consumption.
(2) Prior to vending, the machine-vended water shall goes through the process of—
(a) filtration;
(b) one or more of the following treatments:
(i) Reverse osmosis;
(ii) Distillation;
(iii) Ionization; or
(iv) Any equivalent process; and
(c) disinfection.
(3) Machine-vended water shall comply with the standards as prescribed in the Twenty-Fifth
Schedule.
(4) No person shall operate a water-vending machine for the purpose of trade or business unless
a licence as set out in the Thirtieth Schedule has been granted by the Director.
(5) An application for a licence under subregulation (4) shall be made to the Director in such form and
Updated until December 2023
manner and be accompanied with such information and particulars as the Director may specify,
together with a processing fee of one hundred and thirty ringgit which is not refundable.
(6) In approving an application under subregulation (4), the Director may impose such
conditions as he thinks fit relating to the processing of the water and the subsequent monitoring
thereof.
(7) The licence to operate a water-vending machine shall be valid for a period of two years from
the date of issuance and may be renewed by the Director upon application made by the licensee
together with the renewal fee of one hundred and fifty ringgit.
(8) A person who has been issued with a licence under subregulation (4) and who contravenes
any of the terms and condition imposed by the Director may have his licence suspended or revoked,
and the Director may amend at any time the conditions to which the licence is subject.
(9) The fee for a licence granted under subregulation (4) shall be one hundred and fifty ringgit.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
*Regulation 360D. Isotonic electrolyte drink –
(1) Isotonic electrolyte drink is a beverage that is formulated and expressed as suitable for the
rapid replacement of fluid, carbohydrates, electrolytes and minerals.
(2) Isotonic electrolyte drink shall meet an osmolarity of 250 to 340 miliosmol/L.
(3) Isotonic electrolyte drink shall contains –
(a) not less than 230 mg/L or 10 mmol/L and not more than 920 mg/L or 40mmol/L of
sodium; and
(b) not less than 30 g/L and not more than 100g/L in total of the glucose, fructose, sucrose,
dextrose or maltodextrin but the fructose not more than 50g/L.
(4) Isotonic electrolyte drink may contains carbon dioxide and permitted flavouring substance.
(5) There shall be written on the label of a package of isotonic electrolyte drink –
(a) the osmolarity of the isotonic electrolyte drink as measured in miliosmol/L; and
(b) the amount of sodium in mg per 100 ml or per package if the package contains only a
single portion and per serving as quantified on the label in the nutrition information panel.
(6) There shall be written in the principal display panel in the label of a package of isotonic
electrolyte drink –
(a) The words “ ISOTONIC ELECTROLYTE DRINK” or the words “ CARBONATED ISOTONIC
ELECTROLYTE DRINK” if the isotonic electrolyte drink is carbonated and the size of the
lettering shall not be less than 12 point lettering; and
(b) the words “to replace electrolyte lost resulting from sweating after active physical activity”
and the size of the lettering shall not be less than 10 point lettering.
*Enforce on 30th January 2021 [Ins. P.U.(A) 104/2019]
*Regulation 360E. Isotonic electrolyte drink base
(1) Isotonic electrolyte drink base is a preparation in solid or liquid form when diluted and made
Updated until December 2023
in accordance with the directions stated on the label will produce an isotonic electrolyte drink that
shall comply with the standard for isotonic electrolyte drink prescribed in subregulations 360D(1),
(2), (3) and (4).
(2) There shall be written on the label of a package of an isotonic electrolyte drink base—
(a) The statement giving directions for the preparations of an isotonic electrolyte drink:
(b) The osmolarity of the product as ready for consumption as measured in milliosmol/L; and
(c) The amount of sodium of the product as ready for consumption expressed in mg per 100
ml or per package if the package contains only a single portion and per serving as
quantified on the label in the nutrition information panel.
(3) There shall be written in the principal display panel on the label of a package of isotonic
electrolyte drink base –
(a) The words “ ISOTONIC ELECTROLYTE DRINK BASE” or the words “ CARBONATED
ISOTONIC ELECTROLYTE DRINK BASE” if the isotonic electrolyte drink base is carbonated
and the size of the lettering shall not be less than 12 point lettering; and
(b) the words “to replace electrolyte lost resulting from sweating after active physical activity”
and the size of the lettering shall not be less than 10 point lettering.
*Enforce on 30th January 2021 [Ins. P.U.(A) 104/2019]
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
R egulation 361. General standard for alcoholic beverage.
(1) Alcoholic beverage shall be a liquor containing more than 2 per cent v/v of alcohol and
includes the food for which a standard is prescribed in regulations 362 to 384, 386 and 386A but does
not include denatured spirit or any liquor or any preparation containing more than 2 per cent v/v of
alcohol for which medicinal properties are claimed. [Sub. P.U. (A) 145/2016]
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph 10(b), there shall be written in the principal display panel in the
label of package containing alcoholic beverage, in capital bold-faced lettering of a non-serif character
not less than 12 point size lettering, the words "ARAK MENGANDUNGI - % ALKOHOL ; "
[Subs. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(2A) There shall also be written in the label on a package of a non-serif character not less than 12
point size lettering, the words "MEMINUM ARAK BOLEH MEMBAHAYAKAN KESIHATAN".
[(2A) Ins. P.U.A) 145/2016]
(3) Alcoholic beverage shall be packed in glass bottles, aluminium cans, plastic bottles or
porcelain bottles.
(4) A person shall not sell any alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of twenty-one
years. [ Sub. P.U. (A) 145/2016]
(5) Any alcoholic beverage which is displayed for sale in any retail outlet or sales counter shall
be displayed in a separate display cabinet or shelf used for food.
(5A) Any person who sells alcoholic beverage shall –
(a) place a notice in capital bold-faced black lettering of a non-serif character, not less than
Updated until December 2023
48 point size lettering in a red background containing the words "MEMINUM ARAK BOLEH
MEMBAHAYAKAN KESIHATAN" as specified in the Twentieth B Schedule in front of the
location where the alcoholic beverage is offered for sale; and
(b) display conspicuously a sign on the prohibition of sale of alcoholic beverages to any
person under the age of twenty one years as specified in the Twentieth C Schedule at the
counter where the alcoholic beverage is offered for sale.
[(5A) Ins. P.U. (A) 145/2016]
(6) Alcoholic beverage for which a standard has not been otherwise expressly prescribed by
these Regulations shall not be categorized under regulation 395 as food not elsewhere standardized
and shall be prohibited for sale.
(7) For the purposes of this regulation, "display cabinet" means any compartment, enclosure or
container with or without refrigeration.
(8) Any person who fails to comply with subregulations (2), (2A), (3), (4), (5) and (5A) commits
an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years.
[(7)(8) Ins. P.U. (A) 145/2016]
]
R egulation 362. Wine.
(1) Wine shall be the product of the partial or complete alcoholic fermentation of grape juice or
grape juice and other portions of grapes or the reconstituted product of concentrated grape fruit juice
and potable water or a combination of these. It shall contain not less than 7 per cent v/v and not more
than 15 per cent v/v of alcohol.
(2) Wine may contain –
(a) urea and yeast;
(b) fructose, glucose, glucose syrup, sugar;
(c) carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen;
(d) volatile acidity calculated as acetic acid, not including preservative acids, in a proportion
not exceeding 1.2 g per liter; and
(e) potable water.
(3) Wine may contain permitted preservative and permitted food conditioner, including
polyvinylpyrrolidone in a proportion not exceeding 60 mg per litre.
(4) The word "wine" shall not appear in the label of any package containing food unless the food
complies with the standard for wine as prescribed in this regulation.
(5) The word "sparkling" shall not appear in the label of any package containing wine unless the
wine contains no carbon dioxide other than that generated during fermentation.
(6) The word "champagne" shall not appear in the label of any package containing sparkling wine
unless it has been produced by the traditional method of fermentation in the bottle.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.
R egulation 363. Wine cocktail, vermouth or wine aperitif.
(1) Wine cocktail, vermouth or wine aperitif shall be wine to which has been added bitter,
Updated until December 2023
aromatic or other botanical substance or permitted flavouring substance.
(2) Wine cocktail, vermouth or wine aperitif -
(a) shall not contain more than 20 per cent v/v of absolute alcohol; and
(b) may contain added ethyl alcohol containing not less than 60 per cent v/v of ethyl alcohol.
(3) Wine cocktail, vermouth or wine aperitif may contain permitted preservative, permitted
colouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 364. Aerated wine.
Aerated wine shall be wine to which carbon dioxide is artificially added after bottling. It shall
comply with the standard for wine prescribed in regulation 362.
R egulation 365. Dry wine.
Dry wine shall be the product of the complete alcoholic fermentation of grape juice or grape juice
and other portion of grapes or the reconstituted product of concentrated grape juice and potable
water or a combination of these. It shall comply with the standard for wine prescribed in regulation
362 except that it shall not contain added sugar or fructose or glucose or glucose syrup.
]
R egulation 366. Sweet wine.
Sweet mine shall be the product of partial alcoholic fermentation of grape juice or grape juice and
other portions of grapes or the reconstituted product of concentrated grape juice and potable water or
a combination of these. It shall comply with the standard for wine as prescribed in regulation 362.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 367. Fruit wine.
(1) Fruit wine shall be the product of the partial or complete alcoholic fermentation of the juice,
or of the juice and other portions of any fruit other than grapes and includes the food for which a
standard is prescribed in regulation 368 to 371. It shall not contain more than 15 per cent v/v alcohol.
(2) Fruit wine -
(a) may contain –
(i) urea and yeast;
(ii) fructose, glucose, glucose syrup, sugar;
(iii) carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen; and
(iv) volatile acidity calculated as acetic acid, not including preservative acids, in a
proportion not exceeding 1.2 per litre; and
(b) shall not contain potable water.
(3) Fruit wine may contain permitted preservative and permitted food conditioner, including
polyvinylpyrrolidone in a proportion not exceeding 60 mg per litre.
(4) No package of fruit shall be labelled with the word "wine" unless the name of the fruit from
which the wine is made is conjoined in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point with the word
" wine".
R egulation 368. Apple wine.
Apple wine shall be the product of the alcoholic fermentation of apple juice. It shall contain more
than 8.5 per cent v/v of alcohol. It shall comply with the standard for fruit wine prescribed in
r egulation 367.
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 369. Cider.
Cider shall be fruit wine prepared from apples. It shall not contain more than 8.5 per cent v/v of
alcohol. It shall comply with the standard for fruit wine prescribed in regulation 367.
R egulation 370. Peer wine
Pear wine shall be the product of the alcoholic fermentation of pear juice. It shall contain more
than 8.5 per cent v/v of alcohol. It shall comply with the standard for fruit wine prescribed in
