# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 367.
R egulation 371. Perry.
Perry shall be fruit wine prepared from pears or from a combination of pears and apples in which
the proportion of apple juice does not exceed 25 per cent v/v of the aggregate amount of fruit juice. It
shall not contain more than 8.5 per cent v/v of alcohol. It shall comply with the standard for fruit wine
p rescribed in regulation 367.
R egulation 372. Vegetable wine.
(1) Vegetable wine shall be the product of the alcoholic fermentation of the juice, or of the juice
and other portions, of any vegetable. It shall not contain more than 15 per cent v/v of alcohol.
(2) Vegetable wine shall may contain –
(i) urea and yeast;
(ii) fructose, glucose, glucose syrup, sugar;
(iii) carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen; and [Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(iv) volatile acidity calculated as acetic acid, not including preservative acids, in a proportion
not exceeding 1.2 g per litre.
(3) Vegetable wine may contain permitted preservative and permitted food conditioner
including polyvinylpyrrolidone in a proportion not exceeding 60 mg per litre.
(4) No package of vegetable wine shall be labelled with the word "wine" unless the name of the
vegetable from which the wine is derived is conjoined in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point
with the word "wine".
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
R egulation 373. Honey wine or mead.
(1) Honey wine or mead shall be the product of alcoholic fermentation of honey mixed with water
or fruit juice or both, with or without the addition of herb or spice. It shall not contain more than 15
per cent v/v of alcohol.
(2) Honey wine or mead may contain –
(i) urea and yeast;
(ii) fructose, glucose, glucose syrup, sugar;
(iii) carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen; and
(iv) volatile acidity calculated as acetic acid, not including preservative acids, in a proportion
not exceeding 1.2 g per litre.
(3) Honey wine or mead may contain permitted preservative and permitted food conditioner,
including polyvinylpyrrolidone in a proportion not exceeding 60 mg per litre.
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 374. Beer, larger, ale or stout.
(1) Beer, lager, ale or stout shall be the product of the alcoholic fermentation of liquid derived
from a mash of malted grain with hops or other harmless vegetable bitter.
(2) Beer, lager, ale or stout -
(a) shall contain more than 2 per cent v/v of alcohol; and
(b) may contain unmalted cereal or cereal meal, sugar, yeast nutrient or carbon dioxide.
(3) Beer, lager, ale or stout may contain caramel as a colouring substance, ascorbic acid and not
more than 25mg/kg of sulphur dioxide or sulphite as permitted food conditioner.
[Am. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(4) Except as otherwise provided in subregulation 360(1), the word "beer", "lager", "ale" or
"stout" shall not appear in the label of any package containing food unless the food complies with the
standard for beer prescribed in this regulation.
R egulation 375. Rice wine.
(1) Rice wine shall be the product of the alcoholic fermentation of rice and other grain and shall
include sake. It shall contain not less than 12 per cent v/v and not more than 20 per cent v/v of
alcohol. [Ins. P.U(A)16 /2019]
(2) Rice wine may contain permitted preservative.
(3) No package of rice wine shall be labelled with the word "wine" unless the word "rice" is
conjoined in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point with the word "wine"
R egulation 376. Toddy.
(1) Toddy shall be the product obtained from alcoholic fermentation of the sap of the
inflorescence of the coconut tree Cocos nucifera. It shall contain not less than 7 per cent v/v and not
more than 10 per cent v/v of alcohol.
( 2) Toddy may contain permitted preservative.
R egulation 377. Spirit.
(1) Spirit shall be the alcoholic distillate produced by the distillation of liquor and includes the
food for which a standard is prescribed in regulations 378 to 384.
( 2) Spirit shall contain not less than 32.5 per cent v/v of alcohol.
R egulation 378. Brandy.
(1) Brandy shall be the spirit prepared by the distillation of wine.
(2) Brandy –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i) 35 per cent v/v of alcohol; and
(ii) 60 grammes of ester calculated as ethyl acetate in 100 litres of absolute alcohol; and
(b) may contain sugar, glucose, glucose syrup or fructose.
(3) Brandy may contain permitted flavouring substance and caramel as a colouring substance.
R egulation 379. Fruit brandy.
Fruit brandy shall be the spirit produced by the spirit prepared by the distillation of fruit wine. It
Updated until December 2023
shall comply with the standard for brandy prescribed in regulation 378.
R egulation 380. Rum.
(1) Rum shall be the spirit prepared by the distillation of sugar - cane product which has
undergone alcoholic fermentation. It shall not contain not less than 37.5 per cent v/v of alcohol.
(2) Rum may contain caramel as a colouring substance and permitted flavouring substance.
R egulation 381. Whisky.
(1) Whisky shall be the spirit produced by the distillation of cereal or cereal product which has
undergone alcoholic fermentation. It shall contain not less than 37.5 per cent v/v of alcohol.
(2) Whisky may contain caramel as a colouring substance and permitted flavouring substance.
R egulation 382. Vodka.
Vodka shall be the product obtained by the distillation of grain that has undergone alcoholic
fermentation. It shall be treated with charcoal or activated carbon so as to render it without distinctive
character, aroma or taste. It shall contain not less than 32.5 per cent v/v of alcohol.
R egulation 383. Gin.
(1) Gin shall be the spirit flavoured with juniper berries, with or without other harmless botanical
substance.
(2) Gin –
(a) shall contain not less than 35 per cent v/v of alcohol; and
( b) may contain added sugar.
R egulation 384. Samsu.
Samsu shall be the spirit produced by the distillation of a fermented mash of rice, sorghum or
molasses. It shall contain not less than 35 per cent v/v of alcohol. Sam Cheng and Sochu shall contain
not less than 16 per cent v/v of alcohol.
[Ins. P.U(A)169/2019;Am. P.U.(A) 88/2003; Am. P.U.(A) 358/2005]
R egulation 385. Particular labelling requirement of spirit.
(1) The word or words "brandy", "fruit brandy", "rum", "samsu", "whisky", "vodka" and "gin" shall
not be conjoined with any other word except those words which denote the source of the product,
place of manufacture or brand.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing fruit brandy the name of the fruit
from which the product is prepared.
(3) No package of fruit brandy shall be labelled with the word "brandy" unless the name of the
fruit from which the fruit brandy is made is conjoined in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point
with the word "brandy".
R egulation 386. Liqueur.
(1) Liquer shall be the product prepared by mixing or distilling spirit with or over fruits, flowers,
leaves or other harmless vegetable substance or their juices or with extracts derived by infusion,
percolation or masceration of such harmless vegetable substances. It may contain other food. It shall
contain not less than 17 percent v/v of alcohol.
[Am.P.U.(A) 90/99]
(2) Liquer may contain permitted colouring substance and permitted flavouring substance.
R egulations 386A. Compounded hard liquor
Updated until December 2023
(1) Compounded hard liquor-
(a) shall contain ethyl alcohol from distillates of agricultural origin;
[Subs. P.U(A) 100/2020; P.U(A) 11/2019]
(b) may contain spirit as prescribed in regulation 377 or ethyl alcohol from fermentation of
agricultural origin or both; [Subs. P.U(A) 100/2020]
(c) shall contain equal to or greater than 32.5 per cent volume of alcohol; and
(d) shall not be an alcoholic beverage as prescribed in regulations 377 to 384 and
regulations 386.
(1A) Compounded hard liquor may contain permitted sweetening substance and permitted
flavouring substance. [Ins. P.U(A) 100/2020]
(2) Unless provided in these Regulations, compounded hard liquor shall be packed in a glass
bottle and the minimum volume shall not be less than 350 ml.
(3) There shall be written in the principal display panel in the label on a package containing
compounded hard liquor, the words “compounded hard liquor” in accordance with subregulation
12(2).
(4) Notwithstanding subregulation (3), the word “compounded” shall not be conjoined together
with the name of any other alcoholic beverages under these Regulations.
( 5) (Deleted) Ins. P.U(A) 100/2020; Subs. P.U.(A) 270/2016]
Regulations 386B. Dealcoholised alcoholic beverage
(1) Dealcoholised alcoholic beverage is a product from an alcoholic beverage where its standard is
prescribed in regulations 362 to 386A, its alcohol content has been removed and contains not more
than 0.5 per cent volume per volume of alcohol.
(2) Dealcoholised alcoholic beverage may contain permitted sweetening substance and permitted
flavouring substance.
(3) General standard for alcoholic beverage specified in subregulations 361(2), (2A), (3), (4), (5),
(5A), (7) and (8) shall apply to dealcoholised alcoholic beverage.
(4) There shall be written in the principal display panel in the label on a package containing
dealcoholised alcoholic beverage, the words “dealcoholised” in uniform lettering conjoined together
with the name of the alcoholic beverage.
(5) There shall not appear on the label of dealcoholised alcoholic beverage the words –
(a) “zero alcohol”, “0 alcohol”, “alcohol free”, “no alcohol”, “non-alcoholic” or other words or
expression of similar meaning; and
(b) “soft drink”, “juices” or any word or expression that indicates, suggests or implies that the
dealcoholised alcoholic beverage is a soft drink or juices.”.
[Ins. P.U(A) 171/2020]
R egulation 387. Shandy.
Updated until December 2023
(1) Shandy shall be the product prepared from beer and lemonade. It shall contain not more than
2 per cent v/v of alcohol and may contain carbon dioxide.
(2) Shandy may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance, permitted
flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing shandy -
(a) the word "shandy"; and
(b) a statement of the percentage of alcohol in the beverage.
(4) The words "soft drink" or other words of similar meaning shall not appear in the label on a
p ackage containing shandy.
SPECIAL PURPOSE FOOD
R egulation 388. Special purpose food.
(1) In these Regulations, "special purpose food" means a food named or described as particulary
suitable for consumption by persons requiring special nutritional needs and includes the food for
which a standard is prescribed in regulations 389 to 393.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, the term "carbohydrate" includes alcohol, glycerol,
sorbitol or sugar alcohol, and any carbohydrates substance that is capable of being metabolised.
(3) No person shall import, manufacture or advertise for sale or sell, any food other than
those prescribed in regulations 389 to 393, as special purpose food without the prior written approval
of the Director.
[Am.P.U.(A) 162/88]
(4) No label of any food shall claim that a food is a special purpose food unless adequate
information to support special suitability or nutritional qualities is stated in such label.
(5) Where a special purpose food contains any carbohydrate it shall not be labelled with the word
or words 'sugarless" or "sugar free", or any word of similar meaning.
(5A) Where the ingredient, other than the food additives, added to special purpose food is derived
from plant, the commom name of the plant shall be stated on the label of that food:
Provided it shall not be necessary to indicate the name of the plant from which the ingredient is
derived if it can be inferred from the appropriate designation of such ingredient.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(6) Notwithstanding paragraph 10 (b), all particulars required to appear on the label on the
package of special purpose foods shall be in Bahasa Malaysia and may include translation thereof in
any other language.
[Am.P.U.(A) 162/88; 90/99]
(7) For the purposes of this regulation "infant" means any person up to 12 months of age and
"young children" means any person from the age of more than 12 months up to the age of 3 years.
R egulation 389. Infant formula.
(1) Infant formula shall be any food described or solds as an alternative for human milk for the
feeding of infants. It is a product prepared from milk of cow or other animal or other edible
Updated until December 2023
constituent of animal or both, including fish, or from plant suitable for infant feeding.
(2) Infant formula which is specially processed or formulated to satisfy well recognised and
particular dietary requirements known to exist as a result of a physical or physiological conditions or
specific disease or disorder or both, may be modified to suit that particular condition but in all other
respects shall comply with the standard provided hereinafter in this regulation.
(3) Infant formula shall contain the nutrient supplement specified in column (1) of Table I to the
Twenty -First Schedule in amounts of not less than the amounts specified in column (2) and not more
than the amounts, where specified, in column (3) of the said Table opposite and in relation to that
food. [Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(3A) Infant formula may contain optional ingredient as specified in column (1) of Table 1A to the
Twenty-First Schedule in amount of not more than the maximum permitted proportions as specified
against it in column (2) of the Table.
(3B) The total concentration of nucleotides in any infant formula shall not exceed 5mg per 100
kcal.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 303/2000]
(3C) Infant formula may contain—
(a) trans fatty acid not exceeding 1% of the total fat content;
(b) erucic acid not exceeding 1% of the total fat content; and
(c) long-chain (20 and 22 carbon atoms) polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA) not
exceeding—
(i) 1% of the total fat content for n-3 LC-PUFA; and
(ii) 2% of the total fat content for n-6 LC-PUFA (1% of the total fat content for
arachidonic acid).
(3D) The eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) (20:5 n-3) content in paragraph (c) of subregulation (3C)
shall not exceed that of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (22:6 n-3) content.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 131/2002]
(4) Infant formula may contain the food additives specified in column (1) of Table II to the
Twenty - First Schedule in proportions not greater than the maximum permitted proportions specified
opposite thereto in column (2) of the said Table.
(5) No food additive, other than those specified in column (1) of Table II to the Twenty - First
Schedule, shall be present in infant formula as a result of carry over from raw materials or other
ingredients.
(6) Infant formula or the ingredient used in making the formula shall not have been treated by
ionizing radiation.
(7) There shall be written in the principal display panel in the label of a package containing infant
formula, the words "BREAST MILK IS THE BEST FOOD FOR INFANTS". These words shall be in not less
than 10 point size lettering for 500gm cans and the size of the lettering shall increase proportionately
with the size of the can.
[Subs.P.U.(A) 90/99]
Updated until December 2023
(8) The label of an infant formula shall not display any picture or graphic of infants or babies or
parts of infants or babies, mothers feeding bottles or teats. But for the purposes of illustrating the
method of preparation of an infant formula, graphic may be used.
[Subs.P.U.(A) 90/99]
(9) No label of an infant formula shall display any claim of superiority of the product to breast
milk.
(10) There shall be written in the label on a package containing infant fromula, in not less than 4
point lettering -
(a) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/1988]
(b) the specific types of carbohydrate present;
(c) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/1988];
(d) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/1988] ;
(e) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalorie (kcal) or kilojoule (kJ) or both, and the
amount of protein, carbohydrate, fat, vitamin and mineral contents per 100 gram of the food as
sold and as per specified quantity of the food as suggested for consumption ;
(f) the words "INFANT FORMULA". The size of the lettering of these words shall be not less
than half the height of the lettering for the brand name of the infant formula; and
[Ins.P.U.(A) 90/99]
(g) The name of the animal or plant from which the ingredients are derieved. The name of the
animal or plant shall be written in bold.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 90/99]
(11) Where an infant formula is intended for infants with special nutritional requirements, there
shall be written in the label of such food the specific requirement for which the formula is to be used
and the dietary property or properties on which this is based.
(12) The words "infant formula with iron" shall not appear in the label of any infant formula
unless the product contains not less than 1 mg iron (Fe) per 100 available calories.
(13) Notwithstanding subregulation 26(7), no label of an infant formula shall claim that such
infant formula is enriched or vitaminised.
(13A) The word “humanised” or “maternalised” shall not appear in the label of any infant formula.
[(13A) Ins. P.U.(A) 306/2009:33]
(14) There shall be written in the label of every package containing infant formula –
(a) the method of preparing the food which shall include a statement of the quantity or the
amount of food directed to be used in the preparation to be given to the infant;
(b) a statement suggesting the amount of the prepared food to be given at one time, and the
number of times such amount is to be given per day; such statement to be provided for each
month of age up to six months; and
(c) direction for storage and information regarding its keeping before and after the package
Updated until December 2023
has been opened.
(15) There shall also be written in the principal display panel in the label on a package containing
infant formula, in not less than 4 point lettering and in bold, the words:
"INFANT FORMULA IS NOT THE ONLY FOOD FOR INFANTS OVER 6 MONTHS OF AGE"
[Am.P.U.(A) 90/99]
(16) Any descriptive matter appearing on or attached to or supplied with any package of infant
formula shall not include any information on the promotion or advertisement of another product.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 389A. Follow-up formula.
(1) Follow-up formula shall be food intended for use as a liquid part of the weaning diet for an
infant from the sixth months on and for children. It is a product prepared from the milk of cows or
other animals or other constituents of animal or plant origin, which have been proved to be suitable
for infants from the sixth months on and for children.
(2) Follow-up formula shall be nutritionally adequate to contribute to normal growth and
development when used in accordance with its direction for use.
(3) Follow-up formula which is specially processed or formulated to satisfy well recognised and
particular dietary requirements known to exist as a result of a physical or physiological condition or
specific disease or disorder or both, may be modified to suit that particular condition but in all other
respects shall comply with the standard provided in this regulation.
(4) Follow-up formula shall contain the nutrient specified in column (1) of Table 1 to the Twenty-
First A Schedule in amounts of not less than the amounts specified in column (2) and not more than
the amounts, where prescribed, specified in column (3) of that Table opposite and in relation to that
food.
(5) When prepared in accordance with the instructions for use, 100 ml of the ready-for-
consumption product shall provide not less than 60 kcal and not more than 85 kcal of energy.
(6) Follow-up formula shall contain nutritionally available carbohydrates suitable for the feeding
of infant of six months and children in such quantities as to adjust the product to the energy density in
accordance with the requirements set out in subregulation (4).
(7) Follow-up formula may contain the food additives specified in column (1) of the Table II to the
Twenty-First A Schedule in proportions not greater than the maximum permitted proportions
specified opposite thereto in column (2) of the said Table.
(8) No food additive, other than those specified in column (1) of Table II to the Twenty-First A
Schedule, shall be present in follow-up formula as a result of carry over from raw materials or other
ingredients.
(9) Follow-up formula or the ingredient used in making the formula shall not have been treated
by ionizing radiation.
(10) There shall be written on the label on a package containing follow-up formula in not less than
4 point lettering—
(a) the words "FOLLOW-UP FORMULA" and the size of lettering for these words shall not be
less than half the height of the lettering for the brand name of the follow-up formula;
Updated until December 2023
(b) the name of the animal or plant from which the ingredients are derived which shall be
written in bold;
(c) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalories or kilojoules or both, per 100 g of the food
as sold as well as per specified
quantity of the food as suggested for consumption;
(d) the amount of protein, carbohydrate and fat per 100 g of the food as sold as well as per
specified quantity of the food as suggested for consumption. In addition, the statement per
100 kilocalories (or per 100 kilojoules) is permitted; and
(e) the total quantity of each vitamin, mineral and any optional ingredient, per 100 g of the
food as sold as well as per specified quantity of the food as suggested for consumption and
the declaration per 100 kilocalories or per 100 kilojoules is permitted.
(11) There shall be written on the label on a package containing follow-up formula—
(a) the instructions for correct preparation and a warning against the health hazards of
incorrect preparation;
(b) a statement suggesting the amount of the prepared food to be given at one time, and the
number of times such amount is to be given per day;
(c) direction for storage and information regarding its keeping before and after the package
has been opened; and
(d) a statement "Before deciding to use this product seek the advice of a health professional.
(12) The following details shall be written in the principal display panel in the label of a
package containing follow-up formula:
(a) the words "BREAST MILK IS THE BEST FOOD FOR INFANT" and these words shall be in
not less than 10 point size lettering for 500 g cans and the size of lettering shall increase
proportionately with the size of the can;
(b) in not less than 4 point lettering, the words "NOT TO BE GIVEN TO INFANTS BELOW 6
MONTHS OF AGE"; and
(c) in not less than 4 point lettering and in bold, the words "FOLLOW-UP FORMULA IS NOT
THE ONLY FOOD FOR INFANTS OVER SIX MONTHS OF AGE".
(13) No label of a follow-up formula shall display any picture or graphics of infants or babies or
parts of infants or babies, mothers, feeding bottles or teats. For the purposes of illustrating methods of
preparation of the follow-up formula, graphics may be used.
(14) No label of a follow-up formula shall display any claim of superiority of the product to breast
milk.
(15) No label of a follow-up formula shall use the term "humanised" or "materialised" or similar
terms.
(16) Where a follow-up formula is intended for infants with special nutritional requirements,
there shall be written on the label of such food the specific requirement for which the formula is to be
used and the dietary property on which this is based.
Updated until December 2023
(17) Notwithstanding subregulation 26(7), no label of a follow-up formula shall claim that such
follow-up formula is enriched or vitaminised.
(18) Follow-up formula may contain optional ingredient as specified in column (1) of Table III to
the Twenty-First A Schedule in an amount of not more than the maximum permitted proportions as
specified against it in column (2) of the Table.
(19) The total concentration of nucleotides in any follow-up formula shall not exceed 5mg per
100 kcal.
(20) Any descriptive matter appearing on or attached to or supplied with any package of follow-
up formula shall not include any information on the promotion or advertisement of another product.
[(20). Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:34]
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 390. Canned food for infants and children.
(1) Canned food for infants and children shall be any wholesome food or mixtures of wholesome
food that is sold as suitable for feeding to infants or specifically suitable for feeding to children.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, canned food for infants and children does not include
cereal - based food for infants and children or infant formula.
(3) Canned food for infants and children in ready - to - eat form –
(a) shall be processed by heat before or after being packed in a hermatically sealed can; jar or
other container, so as to prevent spoilage;
(b) shall be homogenous or comminuted in the following forms:
(i) strained food of a fairly uniform, small particle size which does not require chewing
before being swallowed; or
(ii) non - strained food that ordinarily contain particles of a size to encourage chewing
by infants and children; and
(c) may contain sodium and the total sodium content of the product shall not exceed 1 g/kg
calculated on the ready - to - eat basis in accordance with the direction for use.
(4) Canned food for infants and children in dry or concentrated form –
(a) shall be processed by physical means and packed in a hermatically sealed can, jar or other
container so as to prevent spoilage;
(b) shall, after preparation in accordance with the direction on the label, have the consistensy of
strained or non - strained food as specified in paragraph (3)(b) ; and
(c) may contain sodium and the total sodium content of the product shall not exceed 1 g/kg
calculated on the ready - to - eat basis in accordance with the direction for use.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (3)(c) and paragraph (4) (c) , the addition of salt to fruit product and
dessert product based on fruit shall be prohibited.
(6) Canned food for infants and children shall contain the nutrient specified in column (1) of Table I
Updated until December 2023
to the Twenty - second Schedule in amounts of not less than the amount specified in column (2) and not
more than the amount, where prescribed, specified in column (3) of that Table opposite and in relation
to that food.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(7) Canned food for infants and children may contain the food additives specified in column (1) of
Table II to the Twenty - second Schedule in proportions not greater than the maximum permited
proportion specified opposite thereto in column (2) of the said Schedule.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(8) Canned food for infants and children or the ingredients used in making the product shall not
have been treated by ionizing radiation.
(9) Where canned food is claimed to be canned food for infants and children, there shall be written
in the label on a package of such food, in not less than 10 point lettering, the word "STRAINED" or "NON
- STRAINED", as the case may be, immediately followed by the name of the food. No other word or
words shall appear on the same line.
(10) There shall be written in the label on a package containing canned food for infants and children
-
(a) in not less than 10 point lettering, the words "NOT TO BE GIVEN TO INFANTS UNDER SIX
(6) MONTHS OF AGE UNLESS ADVISED BY A HEALTH PROFESSIONAL";
[(a) Am. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
(b) in not less than 4 point lettering –
(i) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/88];
(ii) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/88];
(iii) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalorie (kcal), or kilojoule (kJ) or both, and
the amount of protein, carbohydrate, fat, vitamin and mineral content per 100 gram of
the food as sold and as per specified quantity of the food as suggested for consumption;
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(iv) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/88];
(c) the direction for the preparation and use of the food and instruction on its storage before and
after the package has been opened; and
(d) a statement that canned food for infants and children shall not be fed through bottle or any
other word of similar meaning.
(11) The particulars that are required by paragraph (10)(c) may be written in the accompanying
leaflet.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
R egulation 391. Processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children.
(1) Processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children—
(a) are intended for feeding infants as a complementary food generally from the age of six
months onwards, taking into account infants’ individual nutritional requirements, and for
feeding young children as part of a progressively diversified diet;
(b) shall be foods prepared primarily from one or more milled cereals, such as wheat, rice,
Updated until December 2023
barley, oats, rye, maize, millet, sorghum and buckwheat which shall constitute at least
twenty-five per cent (25%) of the final mixture on a dry weight basis. They may also contain
legumes or pulses, starchy roots such as arrow root, yam or cassava or starchy stems or oil
seeds in smaller proportions. Other ingredients suitable for infants who are more than six
months of age and for young children can be used;
(c) shall include the following:
(i) Products consisting of cereals which are or have to be prepared for
consumption with milk or other suitable nutritious liquids;
(ii) Cereals with an added high protein food which are or have to be prepared for
consumption with water or other suitable protein-free liquid;
(iii) Pasta which are to be consumed after cooking in boiling water or other
suitable liquids; and
(iv) Rusks and biscuits which are to be used either directly or, after
pulverization, with the addition of water, milk or other suitable liquids.
(d) only L (+) lactic acid producing culture may be used; and
(e) if contains honey or maple syrup, it shall be processed in such a way as to destroy spores of
Clostridium botulinum, if present.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, processed cereal-based foods for infants and young
children do not include foods sold as infant formula, follow-up formula, formulated milk powder for
children, or canned food for infants and young children.
(3) The requirements of essential composition concerning energy and nutrients refer to the
processed cereal based food ready for consumption as marketed or prepared according to the
instructions of the manufacturer.
(4) The energy density of the processed cereal based food shall not be less than 0.8 kcal per g
equivalent to 3.3 kJ per g.
(5) The chemical index of the added protein in the processed cereal based food shall be equal to at
least eighty per cent (80%) of the reference protein casein, or the Protein Efficiency Ratio (PER) of the
protein in the mixture shall be equal to at least seventy per cent (70%) of the reference protein casein.
(6) The natural forms of L-amino acids can be added to the processed cereal based food for the
purpose of improving the nutritional value of the protein mixture, and only in the proportions
necessary for that purpose.
(7) The protein content of the processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall be
as follows:
(a) For products mentioned in subparagraphs (1)(c)(ii) and (1)(c)(iv), the protein
content shall not exceed 5.5 g per 100 kcal or 1.3 g per 100 kJ; or
(b) For products mentioned in subparagraph (1)(c)(ii), the added protein content shall not be
less than 2 g per 100 kcal or 0.48 g per 100 kJ; or
(c) For products mentioned in subparagraph (1)(c)(iv) which is made with the addition of a
Updated until December 2023
high protein food, and presented as such, the added protein shall not be less than 1.5 g per
100 kcal or 0.36 g per 100 kJ.
(8) The carbohydrate content of the processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children
shall be as follows:
(a) If sucrose, fructose, glucose, glucose syrup or honey are added to products mentioned in
subparagraphs (1)(c)(i) and (1)(c)(iv)—
(i) the amount of added carbohydrates from these sources shall not exceed 7.5 g per 100
kcal or 1.8 g per 100 kJ; and
(ii) the amount of added fructose shall not exceed 3.75 g per 100 kcal or 0.9 g per 100 kJ.
(b) If sucrose, fructose, glucose, glucose syrup or honey are added to products mentioned in
subparagraph (1)(c)(ii)—
(i) the amount of added carbohydrates from these sources shall not exceed 5 g per 100
kcal or 1.2 g per 100 kJ; and
(ii) the amount of added fructose shall not exceed 2.5 g per 100 kcal or 0.6 g per 100 kJ.
(9) The lipid content of the processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall be
as follows:
(a) For products mentioned in subparagraph (1)(c)(ii), the lipid content shall not exceed 4.5 g
per 100 kcal or 1.1 g per 100 kJ.
(b) If the lipid content exceeds 3.3 g per 100 kcal or 0.8 g per 100 kJ—
(i) the amount of linoleic acid shall not be less than 300 mg per 100 kcal or 70 mg per 100
kJ and shall not exceed 1200 mg per 100 kcal or 285 mg per 100 kJ;
(ii) the amount of lauric acid shall not exceed fifteen per cent (15%) of the total lipid
content; and
(iii) the amount of myristic acid shall not exceed fifteen per cent (15%) of the total lipid
content.
(c) For products mentioned in subparagraphs (1)(c)(i) and (1)(c)(iv), the lipid content shall
not exceed 3.3 g per 100 kcal or 0.8 g per 100 kJ.
(10) The sodium content for the processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall
not exceed 100 mg per 100 kcal or 24 mg per 100 kJ for ready-to-eat products.
(11) The calcium content of the processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall
be as follows:
(a) The calcium content shall not be less than 80 mg per 100 kcal or 20 mg per 100 kJ for
products mentioned in subparagraph (1)(c)(ii); or
(b) The calcium content shall not be less than 50 mg per 100 kcal or 12 mg per 100 kJ for
products mentioned in subparagraph (1)(c)(iv) manufactured with the addition of milk
and presented as such.
Updated until December 2023
(12) The content of vitamin B1 (thiamin) of the processed cereal-based foods for infants and young
children shall not be less than 50 µg per 100 kcal or 12.5 µg per 100 kJ.
(13) For products mentioned in subparagraph (1)(c)(ii)—
(a) the amount of vitamin A (µg retinol equivalents) shall be not less than 60 µg per 100 kcal
or 14 µg per 100 kJ and not more than 180 µg per 100 kcal or 43 µg per 100 kJ. These
limits are also applicable to other processed cereal-based foods when vitamin A is added;
and
(b) the amount of vitamin D shall be not less than 1 µg per 100 kcal or 0.25 µg per 100 kJ and
not more than 3 µg per 100 kcal or 0.75 µg per 100 kJ. These limits are also applicable
to other processed cereal-based foods when vitamin D is added.
(14) Processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children which is ready for consumption
and prepared according to manufacturer’s instructions may contain the food additives as specified—
(a) in Table I, column (1) of the Twenty-third Schedule in proportions not exceeding the
proportions specified opposite thereto in column (2) of the said Schedule; and
(b) in Table II of the Twenty-third Schedule and the maximum permitted proportion shall be
governed by Good Manufacturing Practice.
(15) Notwithstanding subregulation (14), other food conditioner listed in the Table I to the
Eleventh Schedule may be present in processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children
as a result of carry-over from a raw material.
(16) Processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children or ingredients used in making
the product shall not contain partially hydrogenated oils and fats, and shall not have been treated by
ionizing radiation.
(17) There shall be written in the label on a package containing processed cereal-based foods for
infants and young children—
(a) in not less than 10 point lettering—
(i) the words “NOT TO BE GIVEN TO INFANTS BELOW SIX (6) MONTHS OF AGE
UNLESS ADVISED BY HEALTH PROFESSIONAL”;
(ii) the form of processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children such as
“Dry Cereal for Infants (and/ or Young Children)”, “Rusks for Infants (and/or Young
Children)” or “Biscuits or Milk Biscuits for Infants (and/or Young Children)” or
“Pasta for Infants (and/or Young Children)” as the case may be the common name of
the cereal; and
(iii) the words “FOR OPTIMAL INFANT HEALTH, BREASTFEEDING SHOULD CONTINUE
UP TO TWO (2) YEARS OF AGE ALONG WITH COMPLEMENTARY FEEDING”; and
(b) in not less than 4 point lettering—
(i) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalorie (kcal) and kilojoule (kJ), and the
amount of protein, carbohydrate, fat, vitamin and mineral content per 100 gram of
the food as sold and per serving as quantified on the label;
Updated until December 2023
(ii) direction on the method of preparing the food and its storage before and after the
package has been opened;
(iii) a statement that processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall
not be fed through bottle or any other words of similar meaning; and
(iv) for products mentioned in subparagraphs (1)(c)(i), directions on the label shall state
“Only milk shall be used for dilution or mixing” or an equivalent statement.
(18) The particulars required by paragraph 17(b)(ii) may be written on the accompanying leaflet.
(19) No labels of processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall display any
picture, graphic or text which idealises the use of the product.
(20) No picture and graphics of infant less than six months shall be displayed on any label of
processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children.
(21) The processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children shall be free from residues
of hormones, antibiotics and pesticides, and shall comply with requirement of metal contaminant
specified in Table I, IA, IB, IC, ID and IE to the Fourteenth Schedule.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
R egulation 392. Low energy food.
(1) Low energy food shall be special purpose food that is particularly suitable for persons
adopting a restricted energy diet.
(2) Where any specified food is prepared in the form of low energy food, the low energy food so
prepared shall comply with the standard for that specified food as prescribed in these Regulations,
except that such low energy food shall not have a total energy value exceeding those prescribed in the
Twenty - Fourth Schedule and may contain permitted non - nutritive sweetening substance, aspartame
and erythritol.
[(2) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:35]
(3) The low energy food of the type specified in column (1) of the Twenty - fourth Schedule shall
not have a total energy value exceeding those specified in relation thereto in column (2) of the said
Schedule.
(4) There shall be written in the label of a package containing low energy food –
(a) in not less than 10 point lettering, the words "low energy food";
(b) in not less than 4 point lettering -
(i) the total weights and the separate percentages of carbohydrate, protein and fat in
the package;
(ii) the total energy value in the package or the total energy in each 100 ml.or 100
gram, as the case may be.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(iii) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/88]
(iv) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/88]
Updated until December 2023
(5) On the label of any food to which this regulation applies, there shall be an indication that a diet
o f low energy food requires the supervision of a physician.
R egulation 393. Formula dietary food.
(1) Formula dietary food shall be food that is described in the label on a package containing that
food as being suitable as a complete diet when consumed in accordance with the directions contained in
the label. It shall contain, in the quantity stated on the label as the quantity to be consumed in one day,
not more than the amount of nutrient supplements specified in Table III of the Twelfth Schedule.
(2) Formula dietary food may contain permitted nutrient supplement and permitted food
conditioner.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing formula dietary food -
(a) in not less than 10 point lettering, the words "formula dietary food";
(b) in not less than 4 point lettering –
(i) a statement of the quantity of the food to be consumed in one day;
(ii) a statement of the energy yield, expressed in kilocalorie(kcal) or kilojoule (kj) or
both, of that quantity of the food; and
[Am.P.U.(A) 162/88]
(iii) the proportion of protein, fat and carbohydrate in the food;
(iv) [Deleted by P.U.(A) 162/88]
R egulation 393A. Special dietary foods with low sodium content including salt substitute.
(1) Special dietary foods with low sodium content shall be foods with special dietary value as the
result from the reduction, restriction or removal of sodium and include salt substitutes with low sodium
content.
(2) A special dietary food with "low sodium" content other than salt substitutes shall be food
which has been processed without the addition of sodium salts, and the sodium content of which shall
be—
(a) not more than half of that of the normal product consumed; and
(b) not more than 120mg/100g of the final product as normally consumed.
(3) A special dietary food with "very low sodium" content shall be food which has been processed
without the addition of sodium salts, and the sodium content of which shall be—
(a) not more than half of that of the comparable normal product as consumed; and
(b) not more than 40mg/100g of the final product as normally consumed.
(4) Salt substitutes shall contain the ingredients specified in column (1) of the Twenty-fourth A
Schedule in accordance with the requirements specified in column (2).
(5) Salt substitutes may contain:
(a) colloidal silica or calcium silicate in not more that 1% w/w of the salt substitute mixture,
individually or in combination; or
(b) safe and suitable normally consumed foods (including sugar and cereal flour) as diluents.
Updated until December 2023
(6) The sodium content of salt substitute shall be not more than 120mg/100g of the salt substitute
mixture.
(7) The addition of iodine - containing compounds to salt substitutes shall be in accordance with
