# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 54. Tapioca or cassava.
Tapioca or cassava shall be the clean and sound tubers of Manihot esculenta. [Sub. P.U(A)169 /2019]
R egulation 55. Tapioca flour or tapioca starch.
(1) Tapioca flour or tapioca starch shall be the product derived from clean and sound tapioca.
(2) Tapioca flour or tapioca starch –
(a)shall not yield more than 1.5 percent of ash; and
(b) shall not contain any added substance.
R egulation 56. Sago.
Sago shall be the product derived from the pith of the sago palm Metroxylon sago or Metroxylon
rumphii.
R egulation 57. Sago flour.
(1) Sago flour shall be the product derived from the clean and sound sago.
(2) Sago flour –
(a)shall contain not less than 65 per cent of starch;
(b) shall not contain more than 14 percent of water; and
(c) shall not yield more than 0.5 per cent of ash.
R egulation 58. Corn flour.
Corn flour or corn starch shall be the flour derived from any variety of corn. It shall not yield more
t han 0.8 per cent of ash.
R egulation 59. Custard powder.
(1) Custard powder shall be the powder prepared from tapioca flour or corn flour or sago flour,
with or without other food.
(2) Custard powder may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted colouring
s ubstance.
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 60. Meal.
Meal shall be the clean and sound product obtained by grinding sound, cleaned cereals; and mixed
m eal shall be construed accordingly.
R egulation 61. Wheat germ meal or wheat germ.
(1) Wheat germ meal or wheat germ shall be the germ or embryo of the wheat grain, together with
the bran and other parts of the grain unavoidably remaining with the germ.
(2) Wheat germ meal or wheat germ shall contain not less than 60 per cent of the germ or embryo
o f the wheat.
R egulation 62. Oatmeal.
(1) Oatmeal shall be the clean and sound product obtained by grinding sound, cleaned oats after the
removal of the husk.
( 2) Oatmeal shall contain not less than 5 per cent of oat fat.
R egulation 63. Pasta.
(1) In these Regulations, “pasta” means any product, including noodles, beehon, laksa, macaroni
and spaghetti that is obtained by extruding or moulding units of dough.
(2) Pasta shall be comprised principally of a cereal meal, and may also contain –
(a) carbohydrate foods;
(b) egg solids;
(c) salt; and
(d) any other food,
(3) Pasta may contain permitted colouring substance and transglutaminase, sulphur dioxide or
sulphites as a permitted food conditioner not exceeding 200 mg/kg.
[(3) Am.P.U.(A) 113/2009.]
(4) No pasta shall be labelled with the word “egg” or any word of similar meaning unless that
pasta contains not less than 4 per cent of egg solids calculated on a water-free basis.
[Am.P.U.(A) 421/2000.]
R egulation 64. Prepared cereal food.
(1) In these Regulations, “prepared cereal food” includes breakfast cereals.
(2) Prepared cereal food shall be the product obtained from a combination of any cereals that are
uncooked, partially cooked, or cooked with any of the following substances:
(a)sugar;
(b) malt;
(c) honey;
(d) salt;
(c ) any other food.
(3) Prepared cereal food may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring
substance and permitted food conditioner. [Am. P.U.(A) 90/1999.]
Updated until December 2023
(4) Every package of prepared cereal food shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
R egulation 65. Bread.
(1) In these Regulations, “bread” means the product obtained by baking a yeast-leavened dough
prepared from flour or meal, or a combination of these with water and yeast and may contain any
other food, and includes the food for which a standard is prescribed in regulations 66 to 75.
(2) Bread may contain –
(a) propionic acid and its sodium, potassium or calcium salts, not exceeding 2,000 mg/kg of
bread as permitted preservative; and
(b) permitted food conditioner including—
(i) ammonium chloride, not exceeding 2,500 mg/kg of wheat flour or meal used;
(ii) calcium and sodium salt of fatty acid lactylates and fumarates; and
(iii) transglutaminase.
[(2)(b) Subs.P.U.(A) 113/2009.]
(c)permitted colouring substances.
(3) Bread shall not contain more than 45 per cent of water in any part of the loaf.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/1988.]
R egulation 66. White bread.
White bread shall be the bread obtained by baking a yeast-leavened dough prepared from wheat flour
a nd water.
