# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 356.
(2) (a) Tomato juice shall be the juice of clean, sound, mature tomatoes. It shall contain not less than
5 per cent of soluble solids in 100 ml juice measured at 20oC. It shall be free from seeds, skin and other
coarse or hard substance.
(b)The Howard Mould Count shall not exceed 25 per cent of the total field examined.
(3) Where sugar or salt has been added to vegetable juice or concentrated vegetable juice, there
shall be written in the label on a package containing such food the words “contains added sugar” or
“contains added salt” or any other words having the same or similar effect, as the case may be.
(4) Every package of concentrated vegetable juice or vegetable juice concentrate shall be labelled
Updated until December 2023
with a direction for its use.
(5) The words “concentrate” or “concentrated” shall not appear on a package containing
concentrated vegetable juice unless it is conjoined in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point with
the words “vegetable juice”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 90/99
R egulation 220. Canned vegetable.
(1) Canned vegetable shall be the vegetable product prepared by packing vegetable in clean
containers that are hermetically sealed and processed by heat. It may contain other food.
(2) Where vegetable product is canned, it shall also comply with the standard prescribed for a
particular type of vegetable product.
(3) Canned vegetable may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance,
permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner including calcium chloride in such a
proportion that the calcium does not exceed 500 mg/kg.
(4) Where canned vegetable contains at least 50 per cent of vegetable mixed with other food, there
shall be written in the label on a package containing such food the words “vegetable with (state the
name of the other food)” or “(state the name of the vegetable) with (state the name of the other food)”.
(5) Where canned vegetable contains two or more kinds of vegetable, there shall be written in the
label on a package containing such food, in not less than 10 point lettering, the words “mixed
vegetable” , immediately followed, in not less than 4 point lettering, by the names of vegetables, or the
word “mixed (state the names of the vegetables)” as the case may be.
R egulation 221. Fermented soya bean product.
(1) Fermented soya bean product shall be the soya bean, whole or ground, that have been
fermented with harmless microorganism. It may contain other wholesome food. The product shall not
be a sauce and includes tauju or sufu, and tauceong or taucu.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations –
(a) tauju or sufu shall be the product obtained by fermenting soya bean curd with cultures
of Actinomucor elegans or other harmless organism; and
(b) tauceong or taucu shall be product, whole or ground, obtained by fermenting soya
beans with Aspergillus species followed by brine fermentatio n.
(3) Fermented soya bean product may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring
substance and permitted flavour enchancer.
[
R egulation 222. Hydrolysed vegetable protein or hydrolysed plant protein.
(1) Hydrolysed vegetable protein or hydrolysed plant protein shall be the product obtained by
heating suitable proteins or protein-rich substances derived from plant with acids in the presence of
water, followed by neutralization and filtration. It may be concentrated, dried or decolourized.
(2) Hydrolysed vegetable protein or hydrolysed plant protein –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i)2.75 per cent of total nitrogen; and
Updated until December 2023
(ii) 2 per cent of alpha – amino – nitrogen; and
(b) shall not contain more than 60 per cent of chloride calculated as sodium chloride.
(3) Hydrolysed vegetable protein or hydrolysed plant protein may contain caramel as a colouring
substance, permitted flavouring substance, permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food
conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing hydrolysed vegetable protein or
hydrolysed plant protein –
(a) the words “hydrolysed vegetable protein”, or “hydrolysed plant protein”, as the case may
be; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(b)statement giving direction for its use.
SOUP AND SOUP STOCK
R egulation 223. Soup.
(1) Soup shall be the liquid product composed of meat, fish, vegetable, cereal or any combination of
these and may contain salt or any other food.
(2) Soup may contain permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance, permitted
flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner including succinic acid in a proportion not exceeding
5 g/kg.
[Am. P.U.(A) 62/88.]; (2) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:1
R egulation 224. Soup stock.
(1) Soup stock shall be composed of any of the ingredients of soup in liquid, dry or compacted form.
(2) Soup stock may contain—
(i) spices, spice oil, mint and vinegar; and
(ii)caramel and permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring substance,
permitted flavour enhancer and permitted food conditioner, including succinic acid
provided that the final product after dilution does not contain more than 5 g/kg of
succinic acid.
[(2) Subs.P.U.(A)306/2009:19; Am. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
(3) Every package containing soup stock shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
FRUIT AND FRUIT PRODUCT
R egulation 225. Raw fruit or fresh fruit.
(1) Raw fruit or fresh fruit shall be the fruit that is not dried, pulped, dehydrated, frozen, canned,
candied or pickled. It shall not be withered, shrivelled or discoloured.
(2) Raw fruit or fresh fruit may contain permitted colouring substances used in grading or
identifying raw fruit as specified in subregulation 21(5).
(3) For the purposes of this regulation, edible food grade wax may be used in the cleaning and
preparation of raw fruit for sale.
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 226. Dried fruit.
(1) Dried fruit shall be the clean, sound raw fruit that has been prepared and dried under natural or
artificially induced conditions.
(2) Dried fruit may contain sugar, glucose, glycerol, sorbitol, saccharin, sodium saccharin, edible fat
and edible oil and not more than 0.3 per cent of liquid paraffin.
(3) For the purposes of this regulation, edible food grade wax may be used in the cleaning and
preparation of dried fruit for sale.
(4) Dried fruit may contain permitted preservative and permitted colouring substance, and in the
case of dried bananas, it may contain calcium disodium ethylenediamine tetra-acetate in a proportion
not more than 315 mg/kg, and ascorbic acid as permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 227. Mixed dried fruit.
(1) Mixed dried fruit shall be the product prepared by mixing dried fruits.
(2) Mixed dried fruit –
(a)shall contain not less than 70 per cent of dried fruit; and
(b) may contain not more than 15 per cent of citrus peel.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing mixed dried fruit the words “mixed
dried fruit” or “dried (state the names of the fruits)”, as the case may be
R egulation 228. Fruit product.
In these Regulations, “fruit product” means any food prepared from fruit and includes the food
for which a standard is prescribed in regulations 229 to 242 and regulations 244 to 245.
R egulation 229. Candied fruit or glaced fruit or crystallized fruit.
(1) Candied fruit or glaced fruit or crystallized fruit shall be the product obtained by treating the
edible parts of raw fruit or mixture of raw fruits with sugar, glycerol or sorbitol.
(2) Candied fruit or glaced fruit or crystallized fruit may contain permitted preservative.
(3) Candied cherries may contain permitted colouring substance.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing candied fruit or glaced fruit or
crystallized fruit the words “candied fruit” or “glaced fruit” or “crystallized fruit”, or “candied” or
“glaced” or “crystallized”, as the case may be, immediately followed by the name or names of the fruit
from which the content has been prepared.
R egulation 230. Salted fruit.
(1) Salted fruit shall be the product obtained by treating fruit with salt.
(2) Salted fruit may contain permitted preservative.
R egulation 231. Dried salted fruit.
Dried salted fruit shall be the product obtained by treating fruit with salt, with or without sugar,
and dried under natural or artificially induced condition.
R egulation 232. Candied peel.
(1) Candied peel shall be the product obtained by treating the peel of fruit with sugar, glycerol or
Updated until December 2023
sorbitol.
(2) Candied peel may contain permitted preservative.
R egulation 233. Canned fruit.
(1) Canned fruit shall be the sound fruit of one type, packed in clean containers that are hermetically
sealed processed by heat. Canned fruit may contain sugar, invert sugar, refiner’s syrup, glucose or
dried glucose syrup and potable water. The fruit so contained shall be of similar varietal
characteristics and of reasonably uniform size.
[(1) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:20]
(2) Canned fruit may contain permitted food conditioner.
(3) Canned cherries may contain permitted colouring substance.
R egulation 234. Canned fruit cocktail.
(1) Canned fruit cocktail shall be a mixture of two or more types of sound fruits packed in clean
containers that are hermetically sealed and processed by heat. Canned fruit cocktail may contain sugar
and potable water.
(2) Canned fruit cocktail may contain permitted food conditioner.
(3) Cherries in canned fruit cocktail may contain permitted colouring substance.
R egulation 235. Fruit juice.
(1) Fruit juice shall be the expressed juice, or the reconstituted product of concentrated juice and
potable water, of one or more species of fruits and includes the food for which a standard is
prescribed in regulations 236 to 242. It may contain sugar.
(2) The acidity of fruit juice, calculated as anhydrous citric acid, unless otherwise prescribed for a
particular type of fruit juice, shall not exceed 3.5 per cent w/v.
(3) The total soluble solids of fruit juice, unless otherwise prescribed for a particular type of fruit,
shall not be less than 8 g in 100 ml measured at 20oC.
(4) Concentrated fruit juice or fruit juice concentrate shall be the expressed juice of one of more
species of fruit, concentrated to the extent that the product has a soluble solid content of not less than
double the content of the original juice and may be filtered or unfiltered.
(5) Fruit juice may contain permitted preservative, permitted flavouring substance and ascorbic
acid as permitted food conditioner.
(6) For the purposes of subregulation (5), the flavouring substance that may be added to fruit juice
shall be the flavouring substance that have been obtained by pressing, distillation or extraction from
fruit of the kind used in the fruit juice which may be dispersed in any solvent specified in these
Regulations, or in pectin and then whether or not so dispersed, restored to the fruit juice.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.
R egulation 236. Apple juice.
(1) Apple juice shall be the fruit juice of mature apple of the species Phyrus malus.
(2) Apple juice shall contain, in 100 ml measured at 20oC –
(a)not less than 11.5 g of soluble solids; and
(b) not less than 0.3 g and not more than 0.8 g of acid calculated as malic acid.
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 237. Grapefruit juice.
(1) Grapefruit shall be the fruit juice of mature grapefruit of the species Citrus paradisi, or of
hybrids of that species, or of hybrids of the species Citrus grandis.
(2) Grapefruit juice, in 100 ml measured at 20oC –
(a) shall contain –
(i) not less than 9.5 g of soluble solids;
(ii) not less than 1 g and not more than 2 g of acid calculated as anhydrous citric acid; and
(iii) not less than 7 g of soluble solids to each gram of acid calculated as anhydrous citric
acid; and
(b) shall not contain more than 0.03 ml of essential oil.
R egulation 238. Lemon juice.
(1) Lemon juice shall be the fruit juice of mature lemon of the species Citrus limon or of hybrids of
that species.
(2) Lemon juice, in 100 ml measured at 20oC –
(a) shall contain –
(i) not less than 8 g of soluble solids; and
(ii) not less than 4.5 g of acid calculated as anhydrous citric acid; and
(b) shall not contain more than 0.05 ml of essential oil.
R egulation 239. Lime juice.
(1) Lime juice shall be the fruit juice of mature lime of the species Citrus aurantifolia or of hybrids of
that species.
(2) Lime juice shall contain, in 100 ml measured at 20oC –
(a) not less than 8 g of soluble solids; and
(b) not less than 6 g of acid calculated as anhydrous citric acid.
R egulation 240. Orange juice.
(1) Orange juice shall be the fruit juice of mature orange of the species Citrus sinensis or Citrus
reticulata or of hybrids of these species.
(2) Orange juice, in 100 ml measured at 20oC –
(a) shall contain –
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(i)not less than 10.5 g of soluble solids;
(ii) not less than 0.65 g and not more than 1.5 g of acid calculated as anhydrous
citric acid; and
(iii) not less than 10 g of soluble solids to each gram of acid calculated as anhydrous
citric acid; and
(b)shall not contain more than 0.03 ml of essential oil.
.
R egulation 241. Passion fruit juice.
Updated until December 2023
(1) Passion fruit juice shall be the fruit juice of mature passion fruit of the Passiflora species.
(2) Passion fruit juice shall contain, in 100 ml measured at 20oC –
(a) not less than 12 g of soluble solids; and
(b) not less than 1.5 g and not more than 4.5 of acid calculated as anhydrous citric acid.
R egulation 242. Pineapple juice.
Pineapple juice shall be the fruit juice of mature pineapple of the species Ananas comosus. It
shall contain not less than 8 g of soluble solids in 100 ml measured at 20oC.
R egulation 243. Particular labelling requirement of fruit juice.
(1) There shall be written in the label on a package containing fruit juice or concentrated fruit juice
–
(a) the name of the fruit from which the juice has been prepared; and
(b) where the product is composed of the juice of more than one type of fruit, the words
“mixed fruit juice” and the name of the fruit juice present in descending order of the
proportion present.
(2) Where sugar has been added to fruit juice or concentrated fruit juice, there shall be written in
the label on a package containing such juice, the words “contains added sugar” or any other word or
words having the same or similar effect.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing concentrated fruit juice a statement
giving direction for dilution to produce a juice of approximately the same standard as prescribed for
fruit juice in these Regulations.
(4) The word “concentrate” or “concentrated” shall not appear on a package containing
concentrated fruit juice unless it is conjoined in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point with the
words “fruit juice”.
R egulation 243A. Fruit nectar.
(1) Fruit nectar shall be the unfermented pulpy or non-pulpy product obtained by blending the
fruit juice or total edible part of sound ripe fruits of one or more types, concentrated or
unconcentrated, with water and permitted sweetening substance.
(2) The minimum content of fruit ingredient in a fruit nectar shall be as follows:
(a)50% of citrus (other than lime and lemon);
(b) 40% of apple;
(c) 40% of peach;
(d) 40% of pear;
(c )35% of apricot;
(f) 30% of mango, papaya, passion fruit, pineapple;
(g) 25% of guava;
Updated until December 2023
(h) 30% of other fruit.
(3) Where the fruit nectar consists of a combination of the products of two or more fruits in
subregulation (2), the amount of each fruit in the fruit nectar shall be such that, when it is expressed
as a percentage of the amount required singly, the total amount of the percentages is at least 100.
(4) The total soluble solid content of fruit nectar shall be not less than 12%.
(5) Fruit nectar may contain permitted preservative, permitted flavouring substance, citric acid or
malic acid as permitted food conditioner and permitted antioxidant.
(6) For the purposes of subregulation (5), the permitted flavouring substance that may be added
to fruit nectar shall be natural flavouring substance.
(7) Notwithstanding subregulation (6), permitted nature – identical flavouring substance may only
be added in mango nectar.
(8) There shall be written in the label on a package containing fruit nectar the words “fruit nectar”
or the name of such fruit in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point conjoined with the word
“nectar” or “mixed fruit nectar” and the names of the type of fruit nectar present in descending order
of proportion, as the case may be.
(9) There shall be written in the label on a package containing concentrated fruit nectar a statement
giving direction for dilution to produce a nectar or approximately the same standard as prescribed for
fruit nectar in these Regulations.
(10) For the purposes of this regulation, “fruit ingredient” means fruit pulp which is free from seeds
and skin.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 131/02.
R egulation 244. Fruit pulp.
(1) Fruit pulp shall be the pulped parts of raw fruit from which no juice has been extracted.
(2) Fruit pulp may contain permitted preservative and ascorbic acid as permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 245. Fruit puree or fruit paste.
(1) Fruit puree or fruit paste shall be the concentrated fruit juice containing not less than 25 per
cent w/w of total solids.
(2) Fruit puree may contain permitted colouring substance.
JAM. FRUIT JELLY, MARMALADE AND SERI KAYA
R egulation 246. Jam.
(1) Jam shall be the product prepared by boiling one or more types of sound fruits, whether raw,
processed or semi-processed, with permitted sweetening substance, with or without added pectin.
(1A) For the purposes of these Regulations, ginger shall be deemed to the fruit.
(2) Jam shall contain not less than –
(a)35 per cent of fruit except that passion fruit jam and ginger jam may contain not less than 6
per cent and 5 per cent of fruit respectively; and
Updated until December 2023
(b) 65 per cent of soluble solids determined by refractometry at 20oC that is uncorrected for
insoluble solids:
(3) Jam may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance, permitted flavouring
substance and permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing jam made up of more than one type
of fruit the words “mixed fruit jam”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.
R egulation 247. Fruit jelly.
(1) Fruit jelly shall be the gelatinous product prepared by boiling the juice of one or more types of
fruits, whether raw, processed or semi-processed, and permitted sweetening substance, with or
without added pectin. It shall be free from seeds and skin.
(2) Fruit jelly shall contain –
(a)not less than –
(i) 35 per cent of fruit juice extract; and
(ii) 65 per cent of soluble solids determined by refractometry at 20oC that is uncorrected
for insoluble solids.
(3) Fruit jelly may contain permitted preservative, permitted colouring substance, permitted
flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
