# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 22. Flavouring substance.
(1) In these Regulations, “flavouring substance” means any chemically-defined substance with
flavouring properties either formed by chemical synthesis or obtained from materials of plant or
animal origin.
(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, “natural flavouring substance” means any flavouring
substance obtained by physical processes that may result in unavoidable but unintentional changes
in the chemical structure of the components of the flavouring, or by enzymatic or microbiological
processes from material of plant or animal origin, and is not synthetic flavouring substance or any
flavouring substance formed by chemical synthesis.
(3) Permitted flavouring substances are as follows –
(a) Substances which are listed in at least one of the following publications:
(i) Generally Recognised As Safe (GRAS) Flavoring Substances published by the
Flavor and Extract Manufacturers’ Association of the United States (FEMA)
contained in the Food Technology, a publication of the Institute of Food
Technologists; or
(ii) Flavourings, List of Codex Specifications for Food Additives (CAC/MISC 6); or
(b) Natural flavouring substance either in its raw state or after processing by traditional
preparation process including drying, roasting, and fermentation.
Updated until December 2023
(4) Notwithstanding subregulation (3), the addition of flavouring substance into food is
prohibited except as otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(5) Notwithstanding subregulation (3), the addition of flavouring substance specified in Table I
of Eighth Schedule into food is prohibited.
(6) The maximum permitted proportion of certain natural toxicants resulted from the addition of
natural flavouring substances into food is specified in Table II of Eighth Schedule:
Provided that where more than one of such natural toxicants are present, the amount of each
shall be, such that when expressed as a percentage of the amount permitted singly, the sum of the
several percentages which does not exceed one hundred.
(7) Preparation of permitted flavouring substance may contain permitted preservative,
permitted antioxidant and permitted food conditioner.
Sub. P.U.(A) 318/12, Sub. P.U.(A) 162/88, Am. P.U.(A) 306/09]
R egulation 23. Flavour enhancer.
(1) In these Regulations, “flavour enhancer” means any substance that, when added to food, is
capable of enhancing or improving flavour of that food.
(2) The substances specified in the Ninth Schedule shall be the permitted flavour enhancers within
the meaning and for the purposes of these Regulations.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2), the addition of flavour enhancer to food is prohibited except
as otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(4) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
R egulation 24. Antioxidant.
(1) In these Regulations, “antioxidant” means any substance that when added to food, is capable of
delaying or retarding the development in food of rancidity or other deterioration due to oxidation.
(2) The substances specified in the headings to columns (2) to (11) of the Tenth Schedule shall be
permitted antioxidants within the meaning and for the purposes of these Regulations.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2), the addition of antioxidant to food is prohibited except as
otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(4) Where otherwise permitted by these Regulations, the antioxidants set out in the headings to
columns (2) to (11) of the Table to the Tenth Schedule may be added to the foods specified in column
(1) thereof in proportions not greater than the maximum permitted proportions specified opposite
those foods in columns thereof applicable to the antioxidants:
Provided that where the use of more than one such antioxidant is permitted by these Regulations,
the amount of each shall be such that, when expressed as a percentage of the amount permitted singly,
the sum of the several percentages does not exceed one hundred.
(5) Where a food preparation contains as an ingredient, any of the food specified in the Tenth
Schedule, the amount of antioxidant permitted in such food preparation shall be such that when
expressed as a percentage of the amount permitted for that ingredient as specified in the Tenth
Updated until December 2023
Schedule, this percentage shall not exceed the percentage of that ingredient present in the food
preparation.
R egulation 25. Food conditioner.
(1) In these Regulations, “food conditioner” means any substance that is added to food for a
technological purpose to obtain the desired food and includes emulsifiers , antifoaming, agents,
stabilisers, thickeners, modified starches, gelling agents, acidity regulators, enzymes, solvents, glazing
agents and anticaking agents, but shall not include preservative, colouring substance, flavouring
substance, flavour enhancer and antioxidant.
[Am.P.U.(A) 306/2009:13]
(2) The substances specified in Table I and in column (2) of Table II, to the Eleventh Schedule shall
be the permitted food conditioners within the meaning and for the purposes of these Regulations.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2) the addition of food conditioner to food is prohibited
except as otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(4) Notwithstanding subregulation (3), where the addition of food conditioner to food is permitted
by these Regulations, only the food conditioner specified in Table I to the Eleventh Schedule may be
added to such food:
Provided that the food conditioner specified in column (2) of Table II to the Eleventh Schedule
may also be added to the food specified opposite thereto in column (1) of the said Table.
(5) Where any food is added with 25 g per 100 g polydextrose or more there shall be written in
the label on a package containing such food the words “Sensitive individuals may experience a laxative
effect from the excessive consumption of food containing polydextrose”.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
[Am. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(6) (Deleted)
[Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:13.]
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
R egulation 26. Added Nutrient
(1) In these Regulations, “added nutrient” includes any mineral, vitamin, amino acid, fatty acid,
nucleotide or other food components which, when added singly or in combination to food,
improves the nutritional value of the food.
(2) The added nutrients specified in Table I to the Twelfth Schedule or with prior written
approval of the Director shall be the permitted added nutrient within the meaning of and for the
purposes of these Regulations. [Am. P.U. (A) 91/2017]
(3) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, permitted added nutrient may be added
to any food.
(3A) There shall be written in the label on a package of food containing Epigallocatechin gallate
(EGCG), the words “NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PREGNANT AND LACTATING MOTHER”.
[Ins. P.U. (A) 91/2017]
(4) No person shall sell any food to which added nutrient other than a permitted added nutrient
has been added.
Updated until December 2023
(5) No person shall import, manufacture or advertise for sale or sell, as suitable for use in food,
any added nutrient other than a permitted added nutrient.
(6) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(7) No label on a package containing any food shall bear any permitted claims as specified in
column (1) of Table V to the Fifth A Schedule unless the food in the package meets the conditions as
specified in column (3) of Table V to the Schedule; and
[Subs. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(8) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(9) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(10) No food shall contain vitamin and mineral in an amount which exceeds the amount specified
in Table III to the Twelfth Schedule.
[26. Subs. P.U.(A) 306/2009:14]
(11) There shall be written in the label on a package of food other than infant formula, follow-up
formula and formulated milk powder for children containing vitamin K, the words “CONTAINS
VITAMIN K, PERSONS TAKING WARFARIN SHALL SEEK MEDICAL ADVICE BEFORE CONSUMING THIS
PRODUCT”.
[Ins. P.U. (A) 91/2017]
R egulation 26A. Probiotic culture.
(1) For the purposes of this regulation, “probiotic culture” means live microorganisms which
when administered in adequate numbers confer health benefits on the host.
(2) The cultures specified in the Twelfth A Schedule or with prior written approval of the Director
shall be probiotic cultures within the meaning and for the purposes of these Regulations.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, permitted probiotic cultures may be
added to food.
(4) The probiotic cultures added shall remain viable and the viable probiotic count shall not be
less than 106 cfu/ml or cfu/g during the shelf life of such food.
(5) The probiotic cultures shall not contain transmissible antibiotic-resistant genes.
(6) There shall be written in the label on a package of food to which probiotic cultures have been
added, the following item:
(a) the words “CONTAINS (state quantity) OF PROBIOTIC CULTURES”;
(b) the specification of genus, species and strain of the probiotic cultures; and
(c) the direction for storage before and after package is opened.
(7) For the purposes of subregulation (6), where the media used for propagation and
maintenance of the probiotic cultures are derived from animal, the common name of such animal shall
be stated on the label of that food by using the words “MEDIA USED FOR PROPAGATION OF
PROBIOTIC CULTURES DERIVED FROM (the common name of such animal)”.
(8) There may be written in the label on a package of food to which probiotic cultures have
Updated until December 2023
been added, the words “Probiotic cultures help in improving intestinal or gut function” or any other
words of similar meaning.
[Subs. P.U. (A) 104/2017]
PART VI
PACKAGES FOR FOOD
