# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 7. Request for analysis of food sample and certificate of analyst.
(1) The request for analysis of food sample shall be made in Form A as set out in the Third
Schedule.
(2) A certificate of the result of an analysis given by an analyst shall be in the form as set out in
the Fourth Schedule.
R egulation 8. Sample of food.
For the purpose of this Part a sample of food may consist of one or more parts or units of the same
type of food.
PART IV
LABELLING
R egulation 9. General requirements for labelling of food.
No person shall prepare or advertise for sale or sell any food contained in a package, if the package –
(a) does not bear on it a label containing all the particulars required by these Regulations to be
contained on a label relating to such package;
(b) bears on it label containing anything that is prohibited by these Regulations from
appearing on a label relating to such package; or
(c) bears on it a label containing any particulars that are not in the position or manner
required by these Regulations in respect of a label relating to such package.
R egulation 10. Language to be used.
Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, any word, statement, information or direction that
is required by these Regulations to appear on the label of any package of food shall –
(a) in the case of food produced, prepared or packaged in Malaysia, be in Bahasa Malaysia; or
(b) in the case of imported food, be in Bahasa Malaysia or English,
a nd in either case may include translation thereof in any other language.
R egulation 11. Particulars in labelling.
(1) Every package containing food for sale shall, unless otherwise provided in these Regulations,
bear on it a label containing the following particulars, namely -
Updated until December 2023
(a) the appropriate designation of the food or a description of the food containing the common
name of its principal ingredients or if there is no common name of its principal ingredients,
an appropriate descriptive term of the food which is not misleading;
[Am. P.U(A) 209/20.]
(aa) either in conjunction with or in close proximity to the name of the food, such additional
words in regard to the true nature and physical condition of the food;
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20.]
(b) in the case of mixed or blended food, words which indicate that the contents are mixed or
blended, as the case may be, and such word shall be conjoined with the appropriate
designation of the food, in the following form:
"mixed" (here insert the appropriate designation of the food); or "blended" (here
insert the appropriate designation of the food):
Provided that the word "mixed" or "blended" shall not be conjoined with the appropriate
designation of any mixed or blended food which does not comply with the standard
prescribed by these Regulations;
(c) where the food contains beef or pork, or its derivatives, or lard, a statement as to the
presence in that food of such beef or pork, or its derivatives, or lard, in the form –
"CONTAINS (state whether beef or pork, or its derivatives, or lard, as the case may
be)"
or in other words to this effect;
(d) where the food contains added alcohol, a statement as to the presence in that food of such
alcohol, in capital bold-faced lettering of a non-serif character not smaller than 6 point, in
the form-
"CONTAINS ALCOHOL"
or in any other words to this effect;
(e) where the food consists of two or more ingredients, other than water, food additives and
added nutrient, the appropriate designation of each of those ingredients in descending
order of proportion by weight and, wherever required by these Regulations, a declaration
of the proportion of such ingredient;
[Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:2]
(ea) where the food contains ingredients known to cause hypersensitivity, the ingredients
shall be declared on the label.
[(ea) Subs. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
[Am. P.U(A) 209/20.]
(eb) a statement of the percentage of an ingredient by weight or volume as a percentage in
adjacent to each appropriate ingredient at the time of manufacture for food sold as a
mixture or combination where the ingredient –
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20.]
(i) is emphasized on the label through words, pictures or graphics; or
(ii) is not within the name of the food, but is essential to characterize the food;
Updated until December 2023
(f) where the food contains edible fat or edible oil or both, a statement as to the presence in
that food of such edible fat or edible oil or both, together with the common name of the
animal or vegetable, as the case may be, from which such fat or oil is derived;
(g) where the food contains food additive -
(i) with the International Numbering System (INS) for Food Additive number, a statement
of the functional class of the relevant food additive allowed by the name of the food
additive or INS number in brackets; or
(ii) without the International Numbering System (INS) for Food Additive number, only a
statement of the functional class and the name of food additive;
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20.]
(ga) where the food contains food additive with more than one functional class, a statement
of one functional class only;
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20.]
(h)[Deleted by P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(i) a statement of the minimum net weight or volume or number of the content of the package;
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(ia) in the case of food packed in liquid, a statement of the minimum drained weight of the
food;
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(j) in the case of food locally manufactured or packed, the name and business address of the
manufacturer or packer, or the owner of the rights of manufacture or packing or the agent
of any of them; and in the case of imported food, the name and business address of
manufacturer or packer or the owner of the rights of manufacture, or the agent of any of
them, and the name and business address of the importer in Malaysia and the name of the
country of origin of the food;
(k) such other particulars as are required by these Regulations to be given in the case of any
particular food.
(2) The statements required by paragraphs (1)(c) and (d), shall appear immediately below the
appropriate designation of the food.
(2A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(g), where the food additive is a flavouring substance, only the
functional class shall be stated.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(3) For the purpose of paragraphs (1)(e) and (g), where the ingredients of the food, or the food
additives added to such food, are derived from animal, the common name of such animal shall also be
stated on the label of that food:
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
Provided that it shall not be necessary to indicate the name of the animal from which the ingredient or
food additive is derived if it can be inferred from the appropriate designation of such ingredient or
food additive.
Updated until December 2023
(3A) For the purpose of subregulation (3), the origin of food and food ingredients obtained
through modern biotechnology shall be stated as follows:
“gene derived from (common name of such animal)”;
[(3A) Ins.P.U.(A) 229/2010.]
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(j) --
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(a) a telegraphic or code address or an address at a Post Office; or
(b) the name of the company or the trade name of the manufacturer, packer, importer or
seller appearing on any disc or cap or other device used for sealing any package of food,
shall not be sufficient.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 131/02.]
(4A) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(j), “country of origin of the food” means the country in
which the manufactured food last underwent a treatment or process resulting in a substantial change
in its nature.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(5) For the purpose of paragraph (ea) of subregulation (1), the specific food or ingredients
known to cause hypersensitivity are as follows:
(a) cereal containing gluten including wheat, rye, barley and oat;
(b) nut and nut product including peanut and soybean;
(c) fish and fish product;
(d) milk and milk product (including lactose); and
(e) egg and egg product.
[(5) Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:3]
(6) For the purpose of paragraph (ea) of subregulations (1) and (5), the origin of food and food
ingredients obtained through modern biotechnology shall be stated as follows:
“gene derived from (origin)”.
(6A) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(eb) -
(a) the statement is not required-
(i) if the quantity of the ingredient is required to be stated by these Regulations;
(ii) if the drained weight of the ingredient is required to be stated by these Regulations; or
(iii) if the ingredient is used in small quantities as flavour.
(b) In the case of food which has lost its moisture following any treatment –
(i) the percentage by weight or volume of the ingredient shall correspond to the quantity
Updated until December 2023
of the ingredient used in the finished product; or
(ii) the percentage by weight or volume of the ingredient may be replaced by a statement
of the weight of the ingredient used to prepare 100 g or 100 ml of the finished product
where the quantity of the ingredient or the total quantity of all ingredients expressed
on the labelling exceeds hundred per cent.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(7) Food and food ingredients obtained through modern biotechnology shall be labelled as follows:
(a) in the case of food and food ingredients are composed of or contains genetically modified
organisms, the words “genetically modified (name of the ingredient)” shall appear on the
label;
(b) in the case of food and food ingredients are produced from, but does not contain
genetically modified organisms, the words “produced from genetically modified (name of
the ingredient)” shall appear on the label;
(c) for the purpose of paragraphs (a) and (b), in the case of single ingredient foods, the
information shall appear on the principal display panel in close proximity with the name
of the food and shall be in not less than 10 point lettering;
(d) for the purpose of paragraphs (a) and (b), in the case multi–ingredient foods, the
information shall appear in the list of ingredients immediately following the ingredients;
and
(e) for the purpose of paragraph (d), the statement “contains genetically modified ingredient”
shall be stated on the principal display panel in close proximity with the name of the food
and shall be in not less than 10 point lettering;
[(6) & (7) Ins. P.U.(A) 229/2010]
R egulation 12. Form and manner of labelling.
(1) The particulars that are required by regulation 11, or by any other regulation, to appear on a
label, shall appear conspicuously and prominently in the label.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(2) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, the lettering for the particulars that are
required by paragraph 11(1)(a) to appear on a label shall be so prominent in height, visual emphasis,
and position as to be conspicuous by comparison with any other matter appearing on the label.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(2A) Subregulation (2) shall not apply to a trade mark.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(3) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, all particulars that are required by these
Regulations to appear on a label shall be written in no smaller than 10 point lettering, and with equal
prominence with any other matter appearing on or attached to the package.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(4) Notwithstanding subregulation (3), the statement of ingredients as required by
paragraphs (e), (f), and (g), and the particulars that are required by regulation 11(1)(j)and (k), and
regulation 18B, may be written in no smaller than 4 point lettering unless otherwise provided in these
Regulations.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88;Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:4.]
Updated until December 2023
(5) Every label required by these Regulations to be borne on a package shall be legibly and
durably marked either on the material of the package or on material firmly or permanently attached to
the package.
(6) Notwithstanding subregulation (5), a label may be firmly placed inside a package if –
(a) the package is made of clear transparent material; and
(b) the food contained in the package-
(i) is not ready for direct consumption; or
(ii) in the case of food ready for direct consumption, is completely enclosed in its
natural shell or pod or interior wrapper such that it has no direct contact or is
not likely to come into contact with the label.
(7) No label shall appear on the extra wrapper of any food.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 123/95.]
R egulation 13. Size and colour of letters.
(1) Where the size of letters to be used in labels is prescribed in these Regulations by reference to a
minimum number of points, the reference shall be deemed to be a reference to height of the lower
case letter of the type face or if the wording is all in capital letters, the height of the capital letters in
type face irrespective of the height of type body.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations and for internationally accepted unit symbols
of weight and measures, the lettering of every word or statement required by these Regulations to
appear on labels shall be –
(a) all capital letters; or
(b) all lower case letters; or
(c) lower case letters with an initial capital letter.
(3) In every case to which paragraph (2)(a) or paragraph (b) applies, the height of the lettering
shall be uniform in every word or statement that is separately required.
(4) In every case to which paragraph (2)(c) applies, the height of the lower case lettering shall be
uniform in every word or statement that is separately required.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations, where words are required by these
Regulations to appear on labels in letters of a specified size and the package to be labelled is so small
as to prevent the use of letters of that size, letters of smaller size may be used if they are of the largest
size practicable in the circumstances and are in any event no smaller than 2 point.
(6) The requirement in these Regulations as to the height of letters shall be sufficiently complied
with if the letters used are of a greater height than the height prescribed.
(7) All lettering shall appear in a colour that contrasts strongly with its background.
R egulation 14. Date marking.
(1) In these Regulations, "date marking", in relation to a package of food, means a date
Updated until December 2023
permanently marked or embossed on the package, or in the label on the package, of any food
signifying the expiry date or the date of minimum durability of that food, as the case may be.
(2) For the purposes of subregulation (1), the expression -
(a) "expiry date", in relation to a package of food, means the date after which the food, when
kept in accordance with any storage conditions set out in the label of such food, may not
retain the quality attributes normally expected by a consumer; and
(b) "date of minimum durability", in relation to a package of food, means the date until which
the food, when kept in accordance with any storage conditions set out in the label of such
food, will retain any specific qualities for which tacit or express claim has been made.
(3) For the purposes of these Regulations, only marking in clear unmistakable date which can be
correctly interpreted by the consumer shall constitute date marking. The marking of date in code form
for lot identification does not constitute date marking.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(4) The foods specified in the Fifth Schedule, when in a package intended for sale, shall bear or
have embossed, on the label or elsewhere on the package, a date marking in accordance with any of
the alternatives as specified in subregulation (5).
(5) For the purposes of subregulation (4) –
(a) the expiry date in respect of any food shall be shown in one of the following forms:
(i) "EXPIRY DATE or EXP DATE (here insert the date, expressed in day, month and year
or in month or year)";
(ii) "USE BY (here insert the date, expressed in day, month and year or in month or
year)"; or
(iii) CONSUME BY or CONS BY (here insert the date, expressed in day, month and year
or in month or year)";
(b) the date of minimum durability in respect of any food, shall be shown in the following
form:
"BEST BEFORE or BEST BEF (here insert the date, expressed in day, month and year or
in month or year)":
Provided that where only a month of particular year is stated, it shall be presumed that the
expiry date or date of minimum durability, as the case may be, shall be by the end of that
month.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(6) Where the validity of the date marking of a food to which this regulation applies is dependent
on its storage, the storage direction of that food shall also be required to be borne on its label.
(7) No person shall prepare or advertise for sale or sell any food specified in the Fifth Schedule
unless the package containing such food bear a date marking as required by subregulation (4) and in
any of the forms as specified in subregulation (5).
(8) The date marking required by this regulation shall be in capital bold-faced lettering of a non-
serif character not smaller than 6 point.
Updated until December 2023
(9) No person shall—
(a) remove, erase, alter, obscure, superimpose or in any way tamper with any date marking on
any package of food;
(b) import, prepare for sale or sell any package of food which had expired; or
(c ) import, prepare for sale or sell any package of food which has been kept in a condition
which contradicts with any storage conditions set out in the label of such food.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 405/2009]
R egulation 15. Statement of strength of ingredient.
Where the standards of strength, weight or quantity, as the case may be, of any ingredient or
component part of any food are mentioned on the label, unless otherwise provided in these
Regulations, "per cent" shall mean per cent by weight, "parts per million" shall means parts per million
by weight, and "parts per billion" shall mean part per billion by weight.
R egulation 16. Packing on retail premises.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, where any food is packaged on retail
premises and is offered, exposed or kept for sale in such package at the said premises in such a
manner that the customer may himself select the package then-
(a) every such package of food has to be sealed; and
(b) where the package is of a transparent flexible material, the label required by these
Regulations for such package of food may, subject to the requirement of subregulation
12(6), be inserted inside the package. [Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(2) Nothing in paragraph 11(1)(e), (f), (g), and (j) shall apply to any package of food mentioned in
regulation (11), and regulation 18B. [Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.;Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:5.]
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a package shall be deemed to have been sealed if –
(a) in the case of plastic package, it has been completely sealed by heat or other effective
means; and
(b) in the case of paper package, the open end of such package has been folded over and such
fold is secured in position by an adhesive tape or other effective means.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 17. Exemption from regulations 11, 14,16 and 18B.
(1) Regulation 11 and 14 shall not apply to any container referred to in paragraph (a) of the
definition of "bulk container" in subregulation 2(1 Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.].
(2) Paragraphs 11(1)(c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) shall not apply to outer package and any container
referred to in paragraphs (b) of the definition of " bulk container" in subregulation 2(1).
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88; Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:6]
(3) Regulations 11, 14 and 16 shall not apply to-
(a) any package of food if the food is of the nature, quality, quantity, origin or brand
requested by the purchaser and is weighed, counted or measured in the presence of the
purchaser; or
(b) any perishable cooked food ready for direct consumption which is packaged on retail
premises in response to demand by a purchaser for a specified quantity of such food.
Updated until December 2023
(3A) Notwithstanding subregulation 17(3), where food and food ingredients obtained through
modern biotechnology are displayed for retail sale other than in a package, any information required
in subregulations 11(3A), (6) and (7) shall be displayed on or in connection with the display of the
food.
[(3A) Ins. P.U.(A) 229/2010]
(4) [Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(5) Regulation 18B shall not apply to any packages that have a total surface area of less than 100
cm2 and returnable glass bottles, provided that no nutrition claim is made.
[(5) Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:6]
(6) Paragraphs 11(1)(f), (g) and (ga) and subregulation 11(2A) shall not apply to a package
where the largest of its surface area is less than 10cm2.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
R egulation 18. Matter forbidden on any label.
(1) No descriptive matter appearing on or attached to or supplied with any package of food shall
include any comment on, reference to or explanation of, any statement or label required by these
Regulations to be borne on any package of food if such comment, reference, or explanation either
directly or by implication, contradicts, qualifies or modifies the statement or the content of that label.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(1A) Words to indicate grading, quality or superiority or any other words of similar meaning shall
not appear on the label of any package of food unless such description of quality grading conform to
those established by the relevent authorities responsible for such grading; and where such words
appear on the label it shall be presumed that the food is in compliance with the requirements
established by the relevent authorities in respect of that quality grading.
(2) No label which describes any food shall include the word "pure" or any other words of the
same significance unless-
(a) the food is of the strength, purity, or quality prescribed by these Regulations and is free
from any other added substance apart from those essential in the processing of such food;
and
(b) there is no expressed stipulation in these Regulations prohibiting the inclusion of such
word in the label in respect of that food.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, no label which describes any food shall
include the word "compounded", "medicated", "tonic" or "health" or any other words of the same
significance.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(4) No label which describes any food shall include any claim on the absence of –
(a) beef or pork or its derivatives, or lard or added alcohol if the food does not contain such
ingredients; or
(b) any food additive or nutrient supplement the addition of which is prohibited in these
Regulations.
(5) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, pictorial representation or design may be
included in the label for the purpose of illustrating receipes involving the use of the food or
Updated until December 2023
suggestions on how to serve the food, where such inclusion is not misleading or deceptive and the
representation or design is immediately preceded or followed or otherwise closely accompanied, in
not less than 6 point lettering, with the words " RECIPE " or " SERVING SUGGESTION " or other words
of similar meaning, as the case may be.
(6) No label which describes any food shall include any claim—
(a) stating that any given food will provide an adequate source of all essential nutrients, except
as otherwise permitted in these Regulations;
(b) implying that consuming a balanced diet or combination of variety of foods cannot supply
adequate amounts of all nutrients;
(c) which cannot be substantiated;
(d) as to the suitability of a food for use in the prevention, alleviation, treatment or cure of a
disease, disorder or particular physiological condition, except as otherwise permitted in these
Regulations; or
(e) which could give rise to doubt about the safety of a similar food or arouse or exploit fear in
the consumer.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(7) No label which describes any food shall include the word “organic”, “biological”, “ecological”,
“biodynamic” or any other words or descriptive matter of the same significance unless the food
conforms to the requirements established or recognised by the Food Safety and Quality Division.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 306/2009
Am. P.U.(A) 313/2012
Am. P.U(A) 209/20]
(8) No label which describes any food shall include the word “nutritious” or any other words of
the same significance unless—
(a) the food contains a range of nutrients including carbohydrate, fat, protein, vitamin and
mineral;
(b) the food contains a substantial amount of energy of more than 40 kcal per 100 g or 20
kcal per 100 ml;
(c) the food contains source of protein not less than 5 g per 100 g or 2.5 g per 100 ml;
(d) the food contains at least four vitamins of an amount that meets the criteria for claim as
source and two minerals (excluding sodium) of an amount that meets the criteria for
claim as source; and
(e) the amount of the nutrients mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (d) is declared.
[(7) & (8) Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:7.]
(9) No label which describes any food shall include the words “special dietary” or any other
equivalent term except as otherwise provided in these Regulations.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(10) No label which describes any food shall include the word “wholegrain” or “wholemeal” unless
the food contains –
Updated until December 2023
(a) 100% of wholegrain or wholemeal for wheat flour, rice flour, rice or grains;
(b) 60% or more of wholegrain or wholemeal for bread; and
(c) 25% or 8 g or more of wholegrain or wholemeal per serving for other products.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(11) There shall be written in the label the word “wholegrain” or “wholemeal” and the percentage
of the wholegrain or wholemeal in not less than 4 point lettering.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(12) For the purpose of subregulations (10) and (11), a reference to “wholegrain” or “wholemeal”
is a reference to cereal grains that consist of intact, ground, milled, cracked or flaked kernel after the
removal of the inedible parts.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
R egulation 18A. Claims on the label.
(1) Notwithstanding subregulation 18(4), claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of a
particular substance in or to food may be included in the label provided that the claims are not
misleading and the substance—
(a) is not subject to specific requirements in this regulation;
(b) is one which consumers would normally expect to find in the food;
(c) has not been substituted by another substance giving the food equivalent characteristics
unless the nature of the substitution is clearly stated with equal prominence; and
(d) the presence or addition is permitted in the food.
(1A) Claim which highlight the non-addition of sugar may be included in the label if –
(a) no sugar of any type has been added to the food;
(b) the food contains no ingredients that contain sugar as an ingredient;
(c) the food contains no ingredient containing sugar as a substitute for added sugar; and
(d) the sugar content of the food itself has not been increased above the amount contributed
by the ingredients in the food by some other means.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(1B) Where a non-addition of sugar claim is made for any food, the naturally occurring sugar
content in the food shall be declared in 100 g or in 100 ml per serving.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(1C) For the purpose of this regulation, “sugar” includes all monosaccharide and disaccharides
added.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(2) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of one or more nutrients in or to food shall
Updated until December 2023
be regarded as nutrition claims and regulation 18B shall apply to those claims.
(2A) Claims which highlight the non-addition of sodium salts, including “no added salt” may be
included in the label if-
(a) the food contains no added sodium salts;
(b) the food contains no ingredients that contain added sodium salts; and
(c) the ingredients that contain sodium salts functioning as a substitute for added salts are not
used in the food.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(3) Nutrition claims in this regulation includes the following claims:
(a) nutrient content claim;
(b) nutrient comparative claim;
(c) nutrient function claim; and
(d) claim for enrichment, fortification or other words of similar meaning as specified in
subregulation (7) of regulation 26. [Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 18B. Nutrition labelling.
(1) In these Regulations, "nutrition labelling", in relation to a package of food, means a description
intended to inform the consumer of the nutrient content of a food.
(2) Unless otherwise provided in these Regulations, the nutrient content relating to food shall be
provided for all products specified in regulations 63 to 75, 84 to 87, 89 to 113, 116, 134B, 135, 146 to
152, 157 to 170, 177, 185 to 207, 214 to 221, 223 to 224, 226 to 242, 246 to 249, 252 to 259, 269A,
279 to 282, 339 to 358, 360D and 360E.
[Ins. P.U.(A)104/2019]
[Subs. P.U(A) 209/20]
(3) There shall be written on the label of the food specified in subregulation (2)—
(a) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalorie (kcal) or kilojoule (KJ) or both per 100 g or
100 ml or per package if the package contains only a single portion and per serving as
quantified on the label;
[Am. P.U(A) 209/20]
(b) the amount of protein, available carbohydrate (carbohydrate excluding dietary fibre), total
sugars and fat, expressed in g per 100 g or per 100 ml or per package if the package
contains only a single portion and per serving as stated on the label; and
[Subs. P.U(A) 209/20]
(c) the amount of sodium expressed in milligrams per 100 g or per 100 ml or per package if
the package contains only a single portion and per serving as stated on the label.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(4) Notwithstanding subregulation (3), there shall be written on the label on a package of ready-
to-drink beverage, the amount of total sugars in the following form:
Updated until December 2023
“Carbohydrates ..........g
Total sugars ...........g”
(4A) For the purposes of this regulation, a reference to “sugars” shall be a reference to all
monosaccharides and disaccharides contained in food either naturally occurring or added;
[(4A) Ins. P.U.(A) 306/2009:s.8; Subs. P.U.(A) 313/2012]
(4B) For the purpose of this regulation, a reference to dietary fibre means carbohydrate polymers
with three or more monomeric units, which are not hydrolysed by the endogenous enzymes in the
small intestine of humans and when derived from a plant origin, dietary fibre may include fractions of
lignin and other compounds associated with polysaccharides in the plant cell walls.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(4C) In this regulation, “dietary fibre” includes the following categories:
(a) edible carbohydrate polymers naturally occurring in the food as consumed;
(b) carbohydrate polymers which have been obtained from food raw material by physical,
enzymatic process or chemical means and have been proven to have a physiological effect to
the benefit of health; or
(c) synthetic carbohydrate polymers which have been shown to have a physiological effect
to the benefit of health.
[Ins. P.U(A) 209/20]
(5) Where a claim is made regarding the amount or type of fatty acids, the amounts of saturated,
monounsaturated, polyunsaturated and trans fatty acid shall be declared in the following form, as the
case may be:
Fat …… g
compromising of
monounsaturated fatty acid …… g
polyunsaturated fatty acid …… g
saturated fatty acid ........ g
trans fatty acid ........ g
[(5) Subs.P.U.(A) 306/2009:s.8]
(6) The amount of energy to be listed should be calculated by using the following conversion
factors:
(a) Carbohydrates 4 kcal/g (17 kJ);
(b) Protein 4 kcal/g (17 kJ);
(c )Fat 9 kcal/g (37 kJ);
(d) Alcohol (Ethanol) 7 kcal/g (29 kJ);
(e )Organic acid 3 kcal/g (13 kJ); or
(f) Dietary fibre 2 kcal/g (8.5 kJ).
(7) The amount of protein to be listed shall be calculated using the following formula:
Protein = Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen x Conversion factor for specific food.
Updated until December 2023
(8) The conversion factors for specific food specified in subregulation (7) shall be as follows:
Foods Conversion factor
Cereals
Wheat, hard, medium or soft
Wholemeal or flour or bulgur 5.83
Flour, medium or on low extraction 5.70
Macaroni, spaghetti, wheat pastes 5.70
Bran 6.31
Rice 5.95
Rye, barley, oats 5.83
Pulses, nuts and seeds
Groundnuts 5.46
Soya bean, seeds, flour or products 6.25
Treenuts
Almond 5.18
Brazil nut 5.71
Coconuts, chestnuts, treenuts 5.30
Seeds
Sesame, safflower, sunflower 5.30
Milk and milk Products 6.38
Edible fats and Edible Oil 6.38
Margarine, Butter 6.38
Other foods 6.25
(9) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, there may be written on the label of food
the amount of vitamins and minerals in accordance with the following criteria:
(a) only vitamins and minerals which are listed in the Nutrient Reference Values (NRV); or
(aa) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(b) where the vitamins and minerals are not included under paragraph (a) or (aa) with the
written approval of the Director; and
[(9)(b) Am.P.U.(A) 306/2009:s.8]
(c)only those vitamins and minerals which are present in not less than 5 per cent of the Nutrient
Reference Value (NRV), supplied by a serving as quantified on the label.
(10) The numerical information on vitamins and minerals shall be expressed in metric units per
100g or per 100ml or per package if the package contains only a single portion and per serving as
quantified on the label; in addition, this information may be expressed as a percentage of the Nutrient
Reference Value (NRV) per 100 g or per 100 ml or per package if the package contains only a single
portion and per serving as quantified on the label.
(11) Where the numerical information on vitamins and minerals has been expressed as percentage
of Nutrient Reference Values (NRV), the following Nutrient Reference Values (NRV) shall be used for
labelling purposes:
[Subs. P.U(A) 209/20]
Nutrient Reference Values (NRV)
Updated until December 2023
Component Nutrient Reference Value (NRV)
Vitamin A 800 micrograms RE
Vitamin D 15 micrograms
Vitamin C 100 milligram
Vitamin E 10 milligram
Vitamin K 60 micrograms
Thiamine 1.2 milligram
Riboflavin 1.2 milligram
Niacin 15 milligram NE
Vitamin B6 1.3 milligram
Folate 400 micrograms DFE
Vitamin B12 2.4 micrograms
Panthotenate 5 milligram
Biotin 30 micrograms
Calcium 1,000 milligram
Magnesium 310 milligram
Iron 14 milligram
Zinc 11 milligram
Iodine 150 micrograms
Copper 900 micrograms
Selenium 60 micrograms
Manganese 3 milligram
Molybdenum 45 micrograms
Phosphorus 700 milligram
Choline 550 milligram
Protein 50 grams
Carbohydrate 300 grams
Fat 67 grams
Energy 2,000 kilocalorie
(12) There may be written on a label of a package of food the amount of cholesterol or dietary
fibre in the following manner:
[Am. P.U(A) 209/20]
(a) the amount of cholesterol shall be expressed in mg per 100 g or per 100 ml or per
package if the package contains only a single portion and per serving as quantified on the
label; and
[Am. P.U(A) 209/20]
(b) the amount of dietary fibre shall be expressed in g per 100 g or per 100 ml or per package
if the package contains only a single portion and per serving as quantified on the label.
[(12) Subs.P.U.(A) 306/2009:s.8]
(13) Where a food other than food specified in subregulation (2) contains a nutrition labelling,
subregulation (3) shall apply to the labelling.
(14) Where a food makes a nutrition claim, it is also mandatory to include a nutrition labelling as
specified in subregulation (3) and the amount of any other nutrient for which a nutrition claim is
made in respect of the food.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
Updated until December 2023
R egulation 18C. Nutrient content claim.
(1) In these Regulations, “nutrient content claim” means a nutrition claim that describes the level
of a nutrient contained in a food.
(2) When a nutrient content claim or a synonymous claim, that is listed in Table I and Table II to
the Fifth A Schedule is made, the conditions specified in the Tables for that claim shall apply.
(3) Where a food is by its nature low in or free of the nutrient that is the subject of the claim, the
term describing the level of the nutrient shall not immediately precede the name of the food but shall
be in the following form, that is, “a low (naming the nutrient) food” or “a (naming the nutrient)-free
food.” . [Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(4) No label on a package containing any food shall bear a nutrient content claim except those
permitted in these Regulations or with prior written approval of the Director.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
R egulation 18D. Nutrient comparative claims.
(1) In these Regulations, “nutrient comparative claim” means a claim that compares the nutrient
levels or energy value of two or more foods.
(2) There may be written on a label of a package of food a statement that compares the level of a
nutrient in the food with the level of a nutrient in a reference food in the following words or any other
words of the same significance, that are, “reduced”, “less than” “fewer”, “increased”, “more than”,
“light” or “extra”.
(3) For the purpose of subregulation (2), nutrient comparative claims may only be used on the
label based on the food as sold, taking into account further preparation required for consumption if
relevant, according to the instructions for use on the label and subject to the following conditions:
(a) the food being compared shall be different versions of the same or similar food and the
foods being compared should be clearly identified;
(b) a statement of the amount of difference in the energy value or nutrient content shall be
given and the following information shall appear in close proximity to the nutrient
comparative claim:
(i) the amount of difference related to the same quantity, expressed as a
percentage, fraction or an absolute amount and full details of the comparison shall be
given; and
(ii) the identity of the food to which the food is being compared and the food shall
be described in such a manner that it can be readily identified by consumers; and
(c) the comparison should be based on a relative difference of at least 25 per cent in the
energy value or nutrient content, except for micronutrients where a 10 per cent
difference would be acceptable, between the compared foods and a minimum absolute
difference in the energy value or nutrient content equal to or more than the value
required for claim as “low” or a “source” in Table I and II to the Fifth A Schedule.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 306/2009:9] [Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
[Ins. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
R egulation 18E. Nutrient function claim.
(1) In these Regulations, “nutrient function claim” means a nutrition claim that describes the
Updated until December 2023
physiological role of the nutrient in the growth, development and normal functions of the body.
(2) A nutrient function claim shall not imply or include any statement to the effect that the
nutrient would afford a cure or treatment for or protection from a disease.
(3) No label which describes any food shall include any claims relating to the function of a nutrient
in the body unless the food for which the nutrient function claim is made shall contain at least the
minimum amount required of that nutrient per reference amount as specified in Table III to the Fifth A
Schedule.
[Am. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(4) Only the nutrient function claims or any other words of similar meaning as specified in Table
III to the Fifth A Schedule shall be permitted to be specified on a label.
[(4) Subs.P.U.(A) 306/2009:10]
[Subs. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(4A) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(4B) (Deleted)
[P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(5) No label on a package containing any food shall bear a nutrient function claim except those
permitted in this regulation or with prior written approval of the Director.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
Regulation 18F. Other function Claim
(1) In this Regulation, “other function claim” means a claim that describes specific beneficial
effect of other food component in the food that gives positive contribution to health or improvement
of a function of the body.
(2) An other function claim shall not imply or include any statement to the effect that the
nutrient would afford a cure or treatment for a disease or protection from a disease.
(3) No label which describes any food shall include any claims relating to the function of other
food component in the body unless the food for which the function claim is made complies with the
minimum amount of the other food component and other conditions specified in Table IV to the Fifth
A Schedule.
(4) No label on a package containing any food shall bear other function claim except those
claims permitted in these Regulations or with prior written approval of the Director.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
PART V
FOOD ADDITIVE AND ADDED NUTRIENT
R egulation 19. Food additive.
(1) In these Regulations, “food additive” means any substance that is intentionally introduced
into or on a food in small quantities in order to affect the food’s keeping quality, texture, consistency,
appearance, odour, taste, alkalinity, or acidity, or to serve any other technological function in the
manufacture, processing, preparation, treatment, packing, packaging, transport, or storage of the food,
Updated until December 2023
and that results or may be reasonably expected to result directly or indirectly in the substance or any
of its by-products becoming a component of, or otherwise affecting the characteristics of, the food, and
includes any preservative, colouring substance, flavouring substance, flavour enhancer, antioxidant
and food conditioner, but shall not include nutrient supplement, incidental constituent or salt.
(2) No person shall import, manufacture, advertise for sale or sell or introduce into or on any
food-
(a) any food additive other than a permitted food additive;
(b) any permitted food additive which does not comply with—
(i) the standard prescribed in these Regulations;
(ii) the Codex Alimentarius; or
[Subs. P.U. (A) 227/2016]
(c) any food additive other than food additive which has been approved by the Director in
writing.
[Ins. P.U. (A) 227/2016]
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2), the addition of food additive to food is prohibited except as
otherwise permitted by these Regulations, permitted under the Codex Alimentarius or with prior
written approval of the Director. A reference in these Regulations to the addition or use of “other food”
in the composition of food for which a standard is prescribed in these Regulations shall not be
construed as permission for the use of food additives.
[Am. P.U. (A) 227/2016]
(4) No person shall introduce into or on a food any food additive in such a manner as to conceal any
damage to, or any inferiority in the quality of that food.
(5) Notwithstanding anything in these Regulations, except subregulation 389(5), a food additive
may be present in any food where-
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(a) the additive is permitted by these Regulations to be in any ingredient used in the
manufacture of the food; and
(b) the proportion of the additive in any such ingredient does not exceed the maximum
proportion if any, permitted by these Regulations for that ingredient; and
(c) the total proportion of the additive in the final product does not exceed the maximum
proportion, if any, permitted by these Regulations for that products; and
(d) the food into which the additive is carried over does not contain the additive in a greater
quantity than would be the case if the food were made under proper technological
conditions and in accordance with sound manufacturing practice; and
(e) the additive carried over is present in the food at a level that is significantly less than that
normally required for the additive to achieve an efficient technological function in its own
right.
(6) There shall be written in the label on a package containing food additive imported, manufactured,
advertised for sale or sold-
(a) the words “(state the chemical name of the food additive or the International Numbering
system (INS) for food additive number) as permitted (state the type of food additive);
Updated until December 2023
provided that in the case of flavouring substances it shall be sufficient to state the common
name or the appropriate designation of that food additive in place of the chemical name.”;
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88] [Am. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
(b) a statement giving direction for its use; and [Am.P.U.(A)162/88]
(c) the words ‘For Food Use’ or any other words of the same significance in close proximity
with the name of food additive or International Numbering System (INS) for food additive
number.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 209/2020]
Regulation 19A. Processing Aids Substance
19A. (1) In these Regulations, “processing aids” means any substance that is used in the processing
of raw materials, foods or ingredients, to fulfil a technological purpose relating to treatment or
processing, but does not perform a technological function in the final food product and may result in
an unavoidable presence of residues in the final food product.
(2) Substances used as processing aids shall conform to the Guidelines on Substances used as
Processing Aids, (CAC/GL 75)”.
[Ins. P.U(A)169 /2019]
