# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 20. Preservative.
(1) In these Regulations, “preservative” means any substance that, when added to food, is capable
of inhibiting, retarding or arresting the process of decomposition, fermentation, or acidification of
such food or of masking any of the evidence of purefaction but shall not include herb, spice, vinegar or
wood smoke.
(2) The substances specified in the headings to columns (2) to (4) of Table I, and the substances
specified in column (2) of Table II, to the Sixth Schedule shall be the permitted preservatives within
the meaning and for the purposes of these Regulations.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2), the addition of preservative to food is prohibited except as
otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(4) Where otherwise permitted by these Regulations –
(a) the preservatives set out in the headings to columns (2) to (4) of Table I to the Sixth
Schedule may be added to the foods specified in column (1) thereof in proportions not greater
than the maximum permitted proportions specified opposite those foods in the columns
thereof applicable to the preservatives;
(b) the preservatives specified in column (2) of the Table II to the Sixth Schedule may be added
to the foods specified opposite thereto in column (1) of the said Table:
Provided that where the use of more than one of such preservative is permitted by these Regulations,
the amount of each shall be such that when expressed as a percentage of the amount permitted singly,
the sum of the several percentages does not exceed one hundred.
(5) Where a food preparation contains as an ingredient, any of the food specified in the Sixth
Schedule, the amount of the preservative permitted in such food preparation shall be such that when
expressed as a percentage of the amount permitted for that ingredients as specified in the Sixth
Updated until December 2023
Schedule, this percentage shall not exceed the percentage of that ingredient present in the food
preparation. [Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(6) Notwithstanding paragraph 11(1)(g) , where sulphite or sulphur dioxide has been added and
the amount of sulphite or sulphur dioxide as a permitted preservative is more than 10 mg/kg, there
shall be written on the label the words “contains sulphur dioxide.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 306/2009:11]
R egulation 20A. Antimicrobial Agent.
(1) In these Regulations, “antimicrobial agent” means any substance used to preserve food by
preventing the growth of microorganisms and subsequent spoilage, including fungistats, mould and
rope inhibitors, or to sterilize polymeric food-contact surfaces.
(2) The substances specified in the heading to column (2) of Table 1 to the Sixth (A) Schedule
shall be the permitted antimicrobial agent within the meaning and for the purposes of these
Regulations.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2) , the addition of antimicrobial agent to food is prohibited
except as otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(4) Where otherwise permitted by these Regulations, the antimicrobial agent set out in the
heading to column (2) of Table 1 to the Sixth (A) Schedule may be added to thefoods specified in
column (1) thereof in proportions not greater than the maximum permitted proportions specified
opposite those foods in the column thereof applicable to the antimicrobial agent.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 421/00.]
(5) Nisin may be used in the preservation of cheese and canned foods which have been
sufficiently heat processed to destroy spores of Clostridium botulinum.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 21. Colouring substance.
(1) In these Regulations, “colouring substances” means any substance that, when added to food, is
capable of imparting colour to that food and includes colouring preparation.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(2) The substances specified in Table I and Table II to the Seventh Schedule shall be the permitted
colouring substances within the meaning and for the purposes of these Regulations.
(3) Notwithstanding subregulation (2), the addition of colouring substance to food is prohibited
except as otherwise permitted by these Regulations.
(3A) For the purposes of this regulation—
(a)“colouring preparation” means a product prepared by admixing one or more permitted
colouring substances with permitted diluents; and
(b) “diluent “ means any component of colouring preparation that is not itself a colouring
substance and has been intentional mixed therein to facilitate the use of the mixture in
colouring foods.
(3B) colouring preparations shall contain not less then 4 per cent of permitted colouring substance.
Liquid form of colouring preparation may contain benzoic acid as permitted preservatives in a
proportion not exceeding 400 mg/kg and acidity regulators as permitted food conditioner.
(3C) Only the substances specified in Table III to the Seven Schedule shall be the permitted
Updated until December 2023
diluent.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(4) Every package containing colouring substance imported, manufactured or advertised for sale,
or sold or intended to be used for colouring food shall in addition to the requirements of
subregulations 19(6) be labelled with –
(5) in the case of synthetic dye or colouring preparation containing synthetic dye, the colour index
number specified in relation to the colouring substance in column 3 of Table I to the Seventh Schedule;
and
(b) in the case of colouring preparation, the common name, and the total percentage proportion, of the
colouring substance present in the preparation.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88]
(5) Nothing in this regulation shall prohibit the sale of fish, meat, cheese, egg, vegetable, fruit, or
nut that bear markings which have been applied for the purpose of identification or grading to the
food in its raw or original form, or on a portion of the food normally eaten, if such marking-
(a) are composed of permitted colouring substance, with or without other permitted food
additives or harmless diluents;
(b) contrast strongly with their background;
(c) do not cover a substantial area of the original surface to which they were applied; and
(d) have not penetrated the underlying part of the food to any noticeable degree.
