# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

regulation 260. It shall not yield more than 5 per cent of ash insoluble in boiling water. For all other
purposes, it shall comply with the standard for tea prescribed in regulation 260. Tea dust shall pass
through holes of 0.707 mm size (707Um).
[Am. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 262. Tea extract, instant tea or soluble tea.
(1) Tea extract, instant tea or soluble tea is a dried product made exclusively by the aqueous
extraction of tea.
(2) Tea extract, instant tea or soluble tea –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 20 per cent of total ash; and
(ii) 6 per cent of water;
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i) 4 per cent of caffeine; and
(ii) 7 per cent of tannin; and
(c) shall dissolve in boiling water in 30 seconds with moderate stirring and the infusion shall
have the colour, taste, and flavour of freshly brewed tea.
Updated until December 2023
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 263. Scented tea.
Scented tea, tea dust, tea fanning, tea sifting, tea extract, instant tea or soluble tea as specified in
regulations 260, 261 and 262 respectively, shall be tea to which has been added harmless, natural,
aromatic substance such as jasmine flowers, rose petals, essence of bergamot, mint or lemon, and
spices. It shall not contain other foreign substance.
[Am. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
R egulation 263A. Tea mix.
(1) Tea mix shall be tea, tea dust, tea fanning, tea sifting, tea extract, instant tea or soluble tea as
specified in regulations 260, 261, and 262 respectively, with or without sugar. It may contain added
harmless, natural or aromatic substance such as jasmine flowers, rose petals, essence of bergamot,
mint or lemon, and spices.
[Am. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(2) Tea mix may contain permitted food conditioner.
(3) Every package containing tea mix shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
(4) Where tea mix is in a ready-to drink form it shall be construed to be tea drink.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 264. Particular labelling requirement of tea.
(1) Where tea, tea dust, tea extract or scented tea is derived exclusively from one location, the
name of that location may appear in the label on a package containing such tea, tea dust, tea extract or
scented tea, as the case may be.
(2) Except as otherwise provided by these Regulations, the word “tea”, whether alone or used in
connection or association with any other words, shall not appear in the label on a package containing
tea unless the contents of that package and the label thereof comply with the requirements of these
Regulations.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing tea extract, instant tea or soluble tea,
in larger letters than any other words on the label other than the brand name, the words “tea extract”,
“instant tea” or “soluble tea”, as the case may be.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing scented tea the words “scented tea”
immediately followed, in not less than 4 point lettering, by the name of the scenting substance, or the
name of the scenting substance to be conjoined in uniform lettering with the word “tea” as the case
may be.
R egulation 265. Coffee bean.
C offee bean shall be the seed of any species of Coffea, either raw or roasted.
R egulation 266. Coffee or ground coffee or coffee powder.
(1) Coffee or ground coffee or coffee powder shall be the pure roasted coffee bean that is ground
or otherwise prepared so as to be suitable for making an infusion or decoction. It shall be free from
husk and any other substance.
(2) Coffee or ground coffee or coffee powder –
(a) shall not contain more than 7 per cent of water;
(b) shall contain –
(i) not more than 5 per cent and not less than 3 per cent of ash;
Updated until December 2023
(ii) not more than 2.5 per cent and not less than 0.9 per cent of anhydrous caffeine; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, Am. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(iii) not more than 33 per cent and not less than 22 per cent of water – soluble extract; and
(c) shall contain not less than 8.5 per cent of fat.
(3) Where coffee is derived exclusively from one location, the name of that location may appear in
the label on that package of coffee.
R egulation 267. Instant coffee or soluble coffee.
(1) Instant coffee or soluble coffee shall be the dried soluble solids obtained from water –
extraction of freshly roasted, pure coffee beans. It shall be in the form of free flowing powder or
granule having the colour, taste and flavour characteristic of coffee.
(2) Instant coffee or soluble coffee –
(a) shall contain not less than 2.25 per cent of anhydrous caffeine derived from coffee;
(b) shall not contain added substance; and
(c) shall dissolve in boiling water in 30 seconds with moderate stirring.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing soluble coffee or instant coffee the
words “soluble coffee” or “instant coffee”, as the case may be.
(4) The word “pure” or the words “pure coffee” or any word or words having the same or a
similar effect shall not be used on the label on a package containing instant coffee or soluble coffee
unless that word or those words are written in uniform lettering not larger than the letters used for
the name of the food as specified in subregulation (3) and are immediately followed by the word
“extract”.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 267A. Decaffeinated coffee.
(1) Decaffeinated coffee shall be the dried soluble solids obtained from water-extraction of
freshly roasted coffee beans where caffeine has been removed.
(2) Decaffeinated coffee—
(a) shall contain not more than 3 g/kg (w/w) of anhydrous caffeine; and
(b) shall not contain added substance.”.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 268. Coffee essence or liquid coffee extract.
(1) Coffee essence or liquid coffee extract shall be the essence or liquid extract from coffee, with or
without the addition of glycerol or sugar or a combination of these. It shall not contain any other
added substance. It shall contain not less than 0.5 per cent of anhydrous caffeine derived from coffee.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing coffee essence or liquid coffee
extract –
(a) in larger letters than those of any other words on the label, the words “coffee essence”
or “liquid coffee extract”, as the case may be; and
(b) a statement of the percentage of caffeine in the coffee.
(3) The word “pure” or any word and words having the same or a similar effect shall not be used
Updated until December 2023
i n the label on a package containing coffee essence or liquid coffee extract.
R egulation 269. Coffee mixture.
(1) Coffee mixture shall be coffee ground with other food substances.
(2) Coffee mixture shall contain not less than 50 per cent of coffee.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing coffee mixture –
(a) in larger letters than those of any other words on the label, the words “coffee mixture”;
and
(b) a statement of the percentage of coffee in the mixture
(4) Except for the purpose of expressing the percentage of coffee as required in paragraph
(3)(b), the word “coffee” shall not appear in the label on a package containing coffee mixture unless it
is conjoined with the word “mixture”.
[Am.P.U.(A) 183/86, 162/88, 131/02.]
(5) The word “pure” or any word or words having the same or similar effect shall not be used in
the label on a package containing coffee mixture.
R egulation 269A. Premix coffee.
(1) Premix coffee shall be a preparation made from coffee, instant coffee or coffee essence or
liquid coffee extract or coffee mixture as specified in regulations 266 to 269 respectively, with or
without sugar, dextrose, glucose or honey. [Ins. P.U(A)169 /2019]
(2) Premix coffee may contain milk, creamer and other food and permitted flavouring
substance. [Subs. P.U(A)169/2019]
(3) Every package containing premix coffee shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
(4) Where premix coffee is in a ready-to-drink form, it shall be construed to be a coffee drink.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 270. Chicory.
(1) Chicory shall be the powder obtained by roasting and grinding the cleaned and dried root
of Cichorium intybus, with or without the addition of edible fat, edible oil or sugar, in a proportion not
exceeding 2 per cent.
(2) Chicory –
(a) shall not contain more than 10 per cent and not less than 3.5 per cent of ash;
(b) shall not contain more than 2.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(c) shall contain not less than 50 per cent of water soluble extract.
R egulation 271. Coffee and chicory.
(1) Coffee and chicory shall be a mixture of coffee and chicory. It shall not contain any added
substance.
(2) Coffee and chicory shall contain not less than 50 per cent of coffee.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing coffee and chicory –
(a) in larger letters than those of any other words on the label, the words “coffee and chicory”;
Updated until December 2023
and
(b) a statement of the percentage of coffee in the mixture.
(4) Except for the purpose of expressing the percentage of coffee as required in paragraph (3)(b),
the word “coffee” shall not appear in the label on a package containing coffee and chicory unless it is
conjoined with the words “and chicory”.
(5) The word “pure” or any word or words having the same or a similar effect shall not be used in
t he label on a package containing coffee and chicory.
R egulation 272. Instant coffee and chicory or soluble coffee and chicory extract.
(1) Instant coffee and chicory or soluble coffee and chicory extract shall be the dried soluble solids
prepared from water extraction of coffee and chicory as specified in regulation 271.
(2) Instant coffee and chicory or soluble coffee and chicory extract –
(a) shall contain not less than 50 per cent of coffee;
(b) may contain sugar; and
(c) shall dissolve in boiling water in 30 seconds with moderate stirring.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing instant coffee and chicory or
soluble coffee and chicory extract –
(a) in larger letters than those of any other words on the label, the words “instant coffee
and chicory” or “soluble coffee and chicory extract”, as the case may be;
(b) a statement of the percentage of coffee in the mixture.
(4) Except for the purpose of expressing the percentage of coffee as required in paragraph (3)(b),
the words “instant coffee” or “soluble coffee” shall not appear in the label on a package containing
instant coffee and chicory or soluble coffee and chicory extract unless those words are conjoined with
the words “and chicory” or “and chicory extract”, as the case may be.
(5) The word “pure” or any word or words having the same or a similar effect not be used in the
label on a package containing instant coffee and chicory or soluble coffee and chicory extract.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 273. Coffee and chicory essence or liquid coffee and chicory extract.
(1) Coffee and chicory essence or liquid coffee and chicory extract shall be the essence or liquid
extract from coffee and chicory as specified in regulation 271, with or without the addition of glycerol
or sugar or glucose or any combination of these. It shall contain not less than 0.25 per cent anhydrous
caffeine derived from coffee.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing coffee and chicory essence or liquid
coffee and chicory extract –
(a) in larger letters than those of any other words on the label, the words “coffee and chicory
essence” or “liquid coffee and chicory extract”, as the case may be; and
(b) a statement of the percentage of coffee in the mixture.
(3) The word “coffee” shall not appear in the label on a package containing coffee and chicory
essence or liquid coffee and chicory extract unless it is proceeded by the word “liquid” in the case of
Updated until December 2023
liquid coffee and chicory extract and conjoined with the words “and chicory essence” or “and chicory
extract”, as the case may be.
(4) The word “pure” or any word or words having the same or a similar effect shall not be used in
the label on a package containing coffee and chicory essence or liquid coffee and chicory extract.
COCOA AND COCOA PRODUCT
R egulation 274. Cocoa bean.
Cocoa bean shall be the properly fermented, dried whole seed of the cocoa tree Theobroma cacao.
R egulation 275. Cocoa nib or cracked cocoa.
Cocoa nib or cracked cocoa shall be the roasted cocoa bean freed from its shell or husk, with or
without the germ.
R egulation 276. Cocoa paste, cocoa mass, cocoa slab or cocoa liquor.
(1) Cocoa paste, cocoa mass, cocoa slab or cocoa liquor shall be the solid or semi – solid mass
produced by grinding cocoa nibs. It shall contain not less than 48 per cent of cocoa fat.
(2) Cocoa paste, cocoa mass, cocoa slab or cocoa liquor shall not contain, on water – free basis,
more than –
(a) 19 per cent of starch naturally present;
(b) 7 per cent of crude fibre;
(c) 8 per cent of total ash;
(d) 5.5 per cent of ash insoluble in water; and
(e) 0.4 per cent of ferric oxide.
R egulation 277. Cocoa butter.
(1) Cocoa butter shall be the fat produced from cocoa beans, cocoa nibs or cocoa paste by a
mechanical or chemical process. It shall be free from other fats and oils including ermitt oil, and other
substance.
(2) Cocoa butter –
(a) shall have –
(i) a saponification value of from 185 to 200 miligrams potassium hydroxide per gram;
(ii) an iodine value of from 32 to 42;
(iii) a melting point of not less than 29oC; and
(iv) a refractive index (40oC) of from 1.456 to 1.459; and
(b) shall not contain more than 1.75 per cent w/w of free fatty acid (as oleic) acid.
(3) Cocoa butter may contain permitted antioxidant.
R egulation 278. Cocoa or cocoa powder or soluble cocoa.
(1) Cocoa or cocoa powder or soluble cocoa shall be the powdered product prepared from cocoa
paste. It shall be deprived of a portion of its fat and may be treated with alkali or alkaline salts.
(2) Cocoa or cocoa powder or soluble cocoa –
Updated until December 2023
(a) shall comply in its water – free, fat free and alkali – free content, with subregulation
276(2); and
(b) shall not contain in its water – free and fat – free content, more than –
(i) 10.5 per cent of total alkalinity calculated as potassium carbonate; and
(ii) 12.5 per cent of ash.
(3) Cocoa or cocoa powder or soluble cocoa may contain permitted flavouring substance and
permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 279. Chocolate.
(1) Chocolate shall be the product prepared from cocoa paste or cocoa with sugar, with or without
milk components, cocoa butter and other food.
(2) Chocolate –
(a) may contain not more than 5 per cent of milk fat or edible vegetable fat other than
cocoa butter;
(b) shall contain not less than 14 per cent of cocoa paste on water – free and fat –free
basis; and
(c) shall comply, in its water – free, fat – free and alkali – free content, with subregulation
276(2).
(3) Chocolate may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner
including –
(a) lecithin in a proportion not exceeding 0.8 per cent;
(b) monoglycerides and diglycerides, in a portion not exceeding 0.5 per cent;
[(b) Am.P.U.(A) 306/2009:26]
(c) polyglycerol polyricinoleate, in a proportion not exceeding 0.5 per cent if the total
emulsifier content of the chocolate does not exceed 1.5 per cent; and
[© Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:26]
(d) beeswax, candelilla wax, shellac or carnauba wax as permitted glazing agent in a
proportion not exceeding 500 mg/kg.
[(d) Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:26]
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (2)(a), dark chocolate shall not contain more than 3 per cent milk
fat.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (2)(b), chocolate for coating biscuits or confectionery or similar
products shall contain not less than 12 per cent of cocoa paste on water – free and fat – free basis.
R egulation 280. White chocolate.
(1) White chocolate shall be the product prepared from cocoa butter, sugar, with or without milk
components, and other food.
(2) White chocolate –
(a) may contain not more than 5 per cent of milk fat or edible vegetable fat other than cocoa
Updated until December 2023
butter; and
(b) shall comply, in its water – free, fat – free and alkali – free content, with subregulation
276(2).
(3) White chocolate may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner
including –
(a) lecithin in a proportion not exceeding 0.8 per cent;
(b) monoglycerides and diglycerides in a proportion not exceeding 0.5 per cent;
[Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:27]
(c) polyglycerol polyricinoleate, in a proportion not exceeding 0.5 per cent if the total
emulsifier content of the chocolate does not exceed 1.5 per cent; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:27]
(d) beeswax, candelilla wax, shellac or carnauba wax as permitted glazing agent in a
proportion not exceeding 500 mg/kg.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 306/2009:27]
R egulation 281. Milk chocolate.
(1) Milk chocolate shall be the product prepared by mixing cocoa paste or cocoa with sugar, milk
solids, cocoa butter, with or without the addition of other food.
(2) Milk chocolate shall contain not less than –
(a) 2 per cent of milk fat;
(b) 10.5 per cent of milk solids on a fat – free basis; and
(c) 3 per cent of cocoa paste on water – free and fat – free basis.
(3) Milk chocolate that is described as “rich full cream milk chocolate” or “dairy milk chocolate”
shall contain not less than –
(a) 4.5 per cent of milk fat;
(b) 10.5 per cent of milk solids on a fat – free basis; and
(c) 3 per cent of cocoa paste on water – free and fat – free basis.
(4) Milk chocolate may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted food
conditioner including beeswax, candelilla wax, shellac or carnauba wax as permitted glazing agent in a
proportion not exceeding 500 mg/kg.
[(4) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:28]
MILK SHAKE
R egulation 282. Milk shake.
(1) Milk shake shall be the pasteurized or sterilized or ultra high temperature milk, to which
cream, ice – cream, citric acid, tartaric acid or any other food, has been added immediately before sale.
(2) Milk shake shall contain not less than 3 per cent of milk fat.
Updated until December 2023
(3) [Repealed by P.U. (A) 90/99].
(4) Milk shake may contain permitted flavouring substance and permitted food conditioner.
SALT AND SPICE
R egulation 283. Salt.
(1) Salt, other than crude rock salt, shall be crystalline sodium chloride.
(2) On a water – free basis, salt –
(a) shall contain not less than 95 per cent of sodium chloride, food additive excluded;
[Am.P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(b) may contain not more than –
(i) 1.4 per cent of sulphates, calculated as calcium sulphate (CaSo );
(ii) 0.5 per cent of calcium and magnesium chloride (CaCI and MgCI ); and
2 2
(iii) 0.1 per cent of substances other than calcium sulphate, insoluble in cold water; and
(c) shall not contain metal contaminant in a proportion greater than that specified in the
Fourteenth Schedule.
(3) Salt may contain not more than 10 mg/kg of potassium ferrocyanide, sodium ferrocyanide or
ferric ammonium citrate or any combination of these as permitted food conditioner.
(4) Any reference in these Regulations to salt as an ingredient in food shall be deemed to be also a
reference to table salt and to iodised table salt.
[
R egulation 284. Table salt.
(1) Table salt shall be refined salt. It shall contain not less than 97 per cent of sodium chloride on a
water-free basis, food additive excluded and shall not lose more than 1 per cent of its weight on drying
at 130oC.
[Am. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(2) Table salt may contain not more than –
(a) 0.5 per cent of sulphates, calculated as calcium sulphate (CaSo4);
(b) a total of 0.25 per cent of calcium and magnesium chlorides (CaCI2 and MgCI2);
(i) 2 per cent of anticaking agent as permitted food conditioner;
(ii) 0.1 per cent of substances, other than calcium sulphate or permitted anticaking
agent, that are insoluble in cold water; and
(c) 10 per cent of permitted flavour enhancer.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a packabe containing table salt with permitted flavour
enhancer, in uniform lettering of not less than 10 points, the words “table salt with (state the name of
the flavour enhancer )”. These words shall form the first line of the label and shall be in a position
equally prominent with that of any other matter marked on or attached to the package. No other
words shall appear in the same line.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 90/99.
R egulation 285. Iodised table salt or iodised salt.
Updated until December 2023
(1) Iodised table salt or iodised salt shall be table salt or salt to which has been added potassium
iodine or iodate, or sodium iodine or iodate.
(1A) Iodised table salt or iodised salt shall contain potassium iodide or iodate, or sodium iodide
or iodate equivalent to not less than 20 mg/kg and not more than 40mg/kg of iodine.
[(1A) Am. PU.(A) 435/2010: s.4]
(2) *** No person shall manufacture for sale, sell, expose or offer for sale, consign or deliver table
salt or salt weighing 20 kg or less unless the table salt or salt is iodised table salt or salt referred to in
subregulation (1A) and the table salt or salt shall be labelled with the words “iodised Table Salt” or
“Iodised Salt” as the case maybe, on each of its package”; and .
(3) *** The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, direct that in certain areas as designated
by the Director or any authorised officer, no person shall manufacture for sale, sell, expose or offer for
sale, consign or deliver table salt or salt weighing more than 20 kg for household use and human
consumption unless it is iodised table salt or iodised salt.
*** Enforce on 30th Sep 2020 [Sub. (2)&(3) P.U(A)
291/2018) ;Am. P.U.(A) 162/88; P.U.(A) 90/99, P.U.(A) 481/99.]
R egulation 286. Spice.
(1) Spice shall be the sound leaves, flowers, buds, fruits, seeds, barks or rhizomes of plants, that
are suitable for use as condiments for imparting any flavour or aroma to food and from which the oil
or other flavouring constituent naturally present has not been removed and includes the food for
which a standard is prescribed in regulations 287 to 333. Spice may be dried or ground or both.
(2) Ground spice may contain anticaking agent as permitted food conditioner.
R egulation 287. Aniseed.
(1) Aniseed shall be the dried, ripe fruit of the plant Pimpinella anisum.
(2) Aniseed –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 9 per cent of total ash; and
(ii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b) shall contain not less than 1 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 287A. Aniseed powder.
Aniseed powder shall be the powder obtained from the clean, dried fruit of Pimpinella
anisum and shall contain not less than 0.7 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 123/95.]
R egulation 288. Caraway seed.
Caraway seed shall be the dried seed of the plant Carum carvi. It shall contain not less than 3
p er cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 289. Caraway powder.
(1) Caraway powder shall be the powder obtained from the clean, dried seed of Carum carvi.
(2) Caraway powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 10 per cent of water;
Updated until December 2023
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b) shall contain not less than 3 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 290. Cardamom.
Cardamom shall be the dried, almost ripe fruit of the plant Elettaria cardamomum. It shall contain
n ot less than 3 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 291. Cardamom seed.
Cardamom seed shall be the dried seed obtained by separating the seed from the capsule of the
plant Elettaria cardamomum. It shall contain not less than 3 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 292. Cardamom powder.
(1) Cardamom powder shall be the powder obtained from the clean, dried seed separated from the
capsule of Elettaria cardamomum.
(2) Cardamom powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 14 per cent of water;
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 3 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
( b) shall not contain not less than 3 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 293. Cardamom amomum.
Cardamom amomum shall be the dried, almost ripe fruit of the plant Amomum subulatum in the
f orm of capsule. It shall contain not less than 1 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 294. Cardamom amomum seed.
Cardamom amomum seed shall be the dried seed obtained by separating the seed from the
capsules of the plant Amomum subulatum. It shall contain not less than 1 per cent v/w of volatile
e ssential oil.
R egulation 295. Cardamom amomum powder.
(1) Cardamom amomum powder shall be the powder obtained from the clean, dried seed
separated from the capsules of Amomum subulatum.
(2) Cardamom amomum powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 14 per cent of water;
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 3 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b) shall contain not less than 1 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 296. Celery seed.
(1) Celery seed shall be the dried seed of the plant Apium graveolens
(2) Celery seed –
(i) shall not contain more than –
(ii) 10 per cent of total ash; and
Updated until December 2023
(ii) 2 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iii) shall contain not less than 2 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 297. Chilli.
Chilli shall be the fruit or pod of the plant Capsicum annum and Capsicum frutescens.
R egulation 298. Chilli powder.
(1) Chilli powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean, dried chilli fruit of Capsicum
annum or Capsicum frutescens.
(2) Chilli powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 12 per cent of water;
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 1.3 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) 30 per cent of crude fibre; and
(b)shall contain not less than 12 per cent w/w of non – volatile ether extract.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 299. Chilli slurry.
(1) Chilli slurry or commonly known as “chilli bo” shall be the slurry obtained by grinding the
clean, wholesome, fresh or dried chilli with clean potable water. It shall contain not less than 15 per
cent chilli. It may contain salt and vinegar. It shall not contain any other added substance.
(2) Chilli slurry may contain permitted preservative.
R egulation 300. Cinnamon.
Cinnamon shall be the dried piece of the inner bark of the plant Cinnamomum
zeylanicum or Cinnamomum cassia. It shall contain not less than 0.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential
o il.
R egulation 301. Cinnamon powder.
(1) Cinnamon powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean, dried, inner bark
of Cinnamomum zeylanicum or Cinnamomum cassia.
(2) Cinnamon powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –--
(i) 12 per cent of water; and
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 2 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b)shall contain not less than 0.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 302. Cloves.
Cloves shall be the dried flower bud of the plant Eugenia aromatica. It shall contain not less
t han 15 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 303. Cloves powder.
(1) Cloves powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean, dried flower bud of Eugenia
Updated until December 2023
aromatica.
(2) Cloves powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 12 per cent of water;
(ii) 7 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 0.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) shall contain not less than 15 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 304. Coriander.
Coriander shall be the dried, mature fruit of the plant Coriandrum sativum. It shall contain not less
t han 1 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 305. Coriander powder.
(1) Coriander powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean, dried fruit of Coriandrum
sativum.
(2) Coriander powder –
(a)shall not contain more than –
(i)12 per cent of water;
(ii) 7 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid;and
(b)shall contain not less than 0.25 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88, 123/95.]
R egulation 306. Cumin.
Cumin shall be dried fruit of the plant Cuminum cyminum. It shall contain not less than 1.5 per
cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
[Am. P.U.(A) 123/95.]
R egulation 307. Cumin powder.
(1) Cumin powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried fruit of Cuminum cyminum.
(2) Cumin powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 12 per cent of water;
(ii) 9.5 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b)shall contain not less than 1.2 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
[Am. P.U.(A) 123/95.
R egulation 308. Cumin black.
Cumin black shall be the dried seed of the plant Nigella sativa. It shall contain not less than 0.5
p er cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 309. Cumin black powder.
Updated until December 2023
(1) Cumin black powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean, dried seed of Nigella
sativa.
(2) Cumin black powder –
(a)shall not contain more than –
(i)12 per cent of water;
(ii) 7 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b)shall contain not less than 0.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 310. Dill seed.
(1) Dill seed shall be the dried fruit of the plant Anethum graveolens.
(2) Dill seed –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 10 per cent of total ash; and
(ii) 3 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b)shall contain not less than 2.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 311. Fennel.
Fennel shall be the dried, ripe fruit of the plant Foeniculum vulgare or Foeniculum officinale. It
s hall contain not less than 4 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 312. Fennel powder.
(1) Fennel powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean. Dried, ripe fruits
of Foeniculum vulgare.
(2) Fennel powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i)12 per cent of water;
(ii) 9 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 2 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b)shall contain not less than 4 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 313. Fenugreek.
Fenugreek shall be the dried, ripe seed of the plant Trigonella foenum – graecum.
R egulation 314. Fenugreek powder.
(1) Fenugreek powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried, ripe seed of Trigonella
foenum – graecum.
(2) Fenugreek powder –
(a)shall not contain more than –
Updated until December 2023
(i)10 per cent of water;
(ii) 7 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 2 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(b)shall contain not less than 30 per cent of cold water soluble extract.
R egulation 315. Ginger.
(1) Ginger shall be the rhizome of the plant Zingiber officinale.
(2) Ginger –
(a)shall contain not less than 1 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil; and
(b) shall not contain more than 4 per cent of calcium oxide (if limed).
(c )Dry ginger may contain permitted preservative.
R egulation 316. Ginger powder.
(1) Ginger powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the clean, dried rhizome of Zingiber
officinale.
(2) Ginger powder –
(a)shall not contain more than –
(i)13 per cent of water;
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 1 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) 4 per cent of calcium oxide (as CaO); and
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i) 1.7 per cent of water soluble ash;
(ii) 10 per cent of cold water soluble extract;
(iii) 4.5 per cent of water soluble extract (in 90 per cent alcohol); and
( iv) 1 per cent of v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 317. Mace.
Mace shall be the dried coat or arillus of the seed of the plant Myristica fragrans.
R egulation 318. Mace powder.
(1) Mace powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried coat or arillus of the seed
of Myristica fragrans.
(2) Mace powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
Updated until December 2023
(i) 10 per cent of water;
(ii) 3 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 1 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) 10 per cent of crude fibre;
(b) shall contain not less than 7 per cent v/w of volatile essential oils; and
(c) shall contain not less than 20 per cent and not more than 30 per cent of non – volatile ether
extract.
R egulation 319. Mustard.
Mustard shall be the dried seeds of various species of the plant Brassica. It shall contain not less
t han 2.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil and shall be free from the seeds of Argemone moxicana.
R egulation 320. Mustard powder.
(1) Mustard powder shall be the powder obtained by the grinding the dried seeds of various
species of Brassica.
(2) Mustard powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 7 per cent of water;
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 2 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid;
(iv) 8 per cent of crude fibre; and
(v) 15 per cent of starch; and
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i) 0.25 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil; and
[Am. P.U.(A) 90/99.]
(ii) 22 per cent of non – volatile ether extract.
(c) The test for Argemone oil shall be negative.
R egulation 321. Nutmeg.
Nutmeg shall be the dried seed of the plant Myristica fragrans. It shall contain not less than 7
p er cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 322. Nutmeg powder.
(1) Nutmeg powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried seed of Myristica fragrans.
(2) Nutmeg powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 8 per cent of water;
(ii) 5 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 0.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
Updated until December 2023
(iv) 10 per cent of crude fibre; and
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i)7 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil, and
(ii) 25 per cent of non – volatile ether extract.
R egulation 323. Black pepper.
Black pepper shall be the dried mature fruit of the plant Piper nigrum.
R egulation 324. Black pepper powder.
(1) Black pepper powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried, mature fruit of Piper
nigrum.
(2) Black pepper powder—
(a) shall not contain more than—
(i) 14 per cent water;
(ii) 8 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 1.2 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) 18 per cent of crude fibre; and
(b) shall contain not less than—
(i) 5.5 per cent of non-volatile ether extract;
(ii) 1.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil; and
(iii) 4.0 per cent piperine.
[Subs. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 325. White pepper.
White pepper shall be the dried, mature ripe fruit of the plant Piper nigrum, from which the
outer coating of the fruit has been removed.
R egulation 326. White pepper powder.
(1) White pepper powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried, mature ripe fruit
of Piper nigrum from which the outer coating of the fruit has been removed.
(2) White pepper powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 12.5 per cent of water;
(ii) 3.5 per cent of total ash; and
(iii) 0.3 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid.
(iv) 5 per cent of crude fibre; and
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i) 7 per cent of non-volatile ether extract;
Updated until December 2023
(ii) (repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88);
(iii) 0.7 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
]
R egulation 327. Mixed pepper powder.
(1) Mixed pepper powder shall be the powder obtained by mixing black pepper powder with the
white pepper powder and may contain other food including not more than 10 per cent of permitted
flavour enhancer.
[Am. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(2) Mixed pepper powder—
(a) shall not contain more than 12 per cent moisture; and
(b) shall contain not less than—
(i) 3.0 per cent of non-volatile ether extract;
(ii) 0.5 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil;
(iii) 2.0 per cent of piperine; and
(iv) 50 per cent of pepper powder.
[Subs.P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(2A) There shall be written on the label on a package containing mixed pepper powder a
statement of the percentage of pepper powder.
[Ins.P.U.(A) 88/2003]
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing mixed pepper powder with
permitted flavour enchancer, in uniform lettering of not less than 10 point, the words “mixed pepper
powder with (state the name of the flavour enhancer )”. These words shall form the first line of the
label and shall be in a position equally prominent with that of any other matter marked on or attached
to the package. No other words shall appear in the same line.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/ 88.]
R egulation 328. Pimento.
(1) Pimento shall be the dried, ripe fruit of the plant Pimento officinalis.
(2) Pimento –
(a) shall not contain more than 7 per cent of total ash;and
(b) shall contain not less than 2.4 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
R egulation 329. Saffron.
(1) Saffron shall be the dried stigmata or top of style of flower of the plant Crocus sativus.
(2) Saffron –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 8 per cent of total ash;
(ii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iii) 14 per cent of volatile matter at 103oC ⏈ 1 oC; and
Updated until December 2023
(b) shall contain not less than –
(i) 55 per cent of aqueous extract; and
(ii) 2 per cent of total nitrogen
R egulation 330. Star anise.
Star anise shall be the dried, ripe fruit of the plant Illicium verum. It shall have the
characteristic appearance and shall be free from admixture by Illicium anisatum
R egulation 331. Tumeric.
Tumeric shall be the rhizome or root of the plant Curcuma longa or Curcuma domestica. It
shall contain not less than 3 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
[Am. P.U.(A) 123/95.]
R egulation 332. Tumeric powder.
(1) Tumeric powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried rhizome or root
of Curcuma longa or Curcuma domestica.
(2) Tumeric powder –
(a) shall not contain more than –
(i) 13 per cent of water;
(ii) 9 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) 60 per cent of total starch; and
(b) shall contain not less than 2 per cent v/w of volatile essential oil.
[Am. P.U.(A) 123/95.]
R egulation 332A. Blended turmeric powder.
(1) Blended turmeric powder shall be the powder obtained by grinding the dried rhizome or root
of Curcuma longa or Curcuma domestica with the addition of rice flour.
(2) Blended turmeric powder shall contain not less than 50 per cent of turmeric.
(3) Blended turmeric powder—
(a) shall contain not more than—
(i) 13 per cent of water;
(ii) 9 per cent of total ash;
(iii) 1.5 per cent of ash insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid; and
(iv) 60 per cent of total starch; and
(b) shall contain not less than 1.5 per cent v/w of volatile oil.
(4) There shall be written on the label on package containing blended turmeric powder—
(a) in larger letters than those of any other words on the label, the words “blended turmeric
powder”or “ mixed turmeric powder”; and
[(4a) Am. P.U.(A) 306/2009:29]
Updated until December 2023
(b) a statement of the percentage of turmeric powder.
(c)The word “pure” or any word or words having the same or a similar effect shall not be used
in the label on a package containing blended turmeric powder.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
R egulation 333. Mixed spice.
(1) Mixed spice shall be the mixture of two or more types of spices, whether whole or ground
and includes curry powder and curry paste. It shall contain not less than 0.5 per cent v/w of volatile
essential oil.
(2) Curry paste may contain permitted preservative.
R egulation 333A. Curry powder.
(1) Curry powder shall be a mixture of ground spice and other food.
(2) Curry powder shall contain not less than 85 per cent of spices and not less than 0.25 per cent
v/w volatile essential oil.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 123/95]
VINEGAR, SAUCE, CHUTNEY AND PICKLE
R egulation 334. Vinegar.
(1) Vinegar shall be a liquid product prepared from the alcoholic fermentation and subsequent
acetous fermentation of any suitable food.
(2) Vinegar –
(a) shall contain not less than 4 per cent v/w of acetic acid; and
(b) shall not contain any mineral acid.
(c) Vinegar may contain permitted preservative, caramel as a colouring substance and spices as
permitted flavouring substance.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.
R egulation 335. Distilled vinegar.
(1) Distilled vinegar shall be the product prepared by the distillation of vinegar as specified in
