# Source: FR1985_EN_2024.pdf.txt

Regulation 74. Wholemeal bread.
(1) Wholemeal bread shall be the bread obtained by baking a yeast – leavened dough prepared
from –
(a) wholemeal wheat flour and water; or
(b) a mixture of wholemeal wheat flour and wheat flour containing not less than 60 per cent of
wholemeal wheat flour, and water.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing wholemeal bread a statement of the
percentage of wholemeal wheat flour in the bread.
R egulation 75. Enriched bread.
(1) Where any bread is claimed to be enriched, fortified or vitaminised or any word of the same
effect, the amount of added minerals or vitamins or both shall comply with regulation 26.
(2) No bread shall be labelled with the word “fortified”, “enriched” or any word of the same effect
unless it complies with the standard for enriched bread prescribed in subregulation (1).
MALT AND MALT EXTRACT
R egulation 76. Malt.
In these Regulations, “malt” means the grain of barley, or of any other cereal that has germinated and
h as been subsequently dried.
R egulation 77. Malt extract.
(1) Malt extract shall be the substance obtained by evaporating an aqueous extract of malt at a
Updated until December 2023
temperature not exceeding 55o C.
(2) Malt extract shall contain not less than 70 per cent of total solids derived wholly from malt.
(3) The diastatic power of malt extract shall be such as to ensure that 10 gm of the extract shall, in
30 minutes at a temperature of 40o C, convert 25 g of pure anhydrous potato starch into an equivalent
a mount of maltose.
R egulation 78. Baker’s malt extract, commercial malt extract or bakers’ maltose.
(1) Bakers’ malt extract, commercial malt extract or bakers’ maltose shall contain not less than 70
per cent of solids derived wholly from malt. It shall possess the diastatic power prescribed for malt.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing bakers’ malt extract that is devoid of
enzymic the word “non – diastatic”.
FOOD AERATING SUBSTANCE
R egulation 79. Cream or tartar.
(1) Cream of tartar shall contain not less than 99 per cent of acid tartrates calculated as potassium
hydrogen tartrate.
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing cream of tartar for use in food –
(a) the words “cream of tartar”; and
(b) a statement giving direction for its use.
R egulation 80. Acid phosphate.
(1) In these Regulations, “acid phosphate” means sodium acid pyrophosphate or monosodium
orthophosphate or calcium acid phosphate.
(2) Acid phosphate for use in food shall not contain more than 1 per cent of sulphate calculated as
calcium sulphate, and its neutralizing value calculated as parts sodium bicarbonate per 100 parts
powder shall not be less than 44.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing acid phosphate for use in food –
(a) the chemical name of the acid salt or salts; and
(b) a statement giving direction for its use.
(4) No package of acid phosphate for use in food shall be labelled with the words “cream of tartar”,
or any contraction of these words, or any word of similar meaning.
R egulation 81. Baking powder.
(1) Baking powder shall be a mixture of sodium bicarbonate with cream of tartar, tartaric acid, acid
phosphate or sodium aluminium phosphate or any combination of these,with or without a farinaceous
substance.
(2) Baking powder –
(a)shall yield not less than 10 percent of carbon dioxide on heating with water; and
(b) may contain permitted colouring substance.
Updated until December 2023
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing baking powder, the chemical names
and proportions of the ingredients. Where two or more names are available for any acid material, the
name most commonly used shall be given.
(4) Every package of baking powder for use in food shall be labelled with a direction for its use.
MILK AND MILK PRODUCT
R egulation 82. Milk, raw milk or fresh milk.
(1) In these Regulations, “milk”, “raw milk” or “fresh milk” means the normal, clean, fresh
mammary secretion of healthy cow, buffalo, goat or sheep that is properly fed and kept, excluding that
obtained during the four days immediately following calving.
(2) Milk –
(a) shall contain not less than –
(i) 3.25 per cent of milk fat; and
(ii) 8.5 per cent of non – fat milk solids; and
(b) shall not contain any –
(i) added water;
(ii) permitted food additive;
(iii) other added substance; or
(iv) trace of antibiotic substance.
(3) (Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88).
(4) Milk may have been cooled but shall not have been subjected to irradiation, or any other
physical treatment.
[the word “heat” Del. P.U. (A) 145/2016]
(5) Milk, when subjected to the Reductase Test, shall not completely decolourize any methylene
blue solution in less than 4 hours.
(6) The standards prescribed for milk and milk product in these Regulations are those of cow’s
milk.
R egulation 83. Milk product.
Milk product shall be any product prepared from milk and includes the food for which a standard
is prescribed in regulations 84 to 87 and regulations 89 to 116.
R egulation 84. Skimmed milk, skim milk, non – fat milk or separated milk.
(1) Skimmed milk, skim milk, non – fat milk or separated milk shall be milk from which milk fat
has been removed.
(2) Skimmed milk, skim milk, non – fat milk or separated milk –
(a) shall not contain more then 0.5 per cent of milk fat; and
(b) shall contain not less than 8.5 percent of non fat – milk solids.
Updated until December 2023
(3) Skimmed milk shall conform to the tests specified in subregulation 85(2).
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing skimmed milk, skim milk, non – fat
milk or separated milk the words “skimmed milk” or “skim milk” or “non – fat milk” or “separated
milk” as the case may be, immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS EXCEPT
ON MEDICAL ADVICE”. The words shall form the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall
appear in the same line or lines.
[Am.P.U.(A) 183/86.]
R egulation 85. Pasteurized milk.
(1) Pasteurized milk shall be milk that has been efficiently heat – treated by the following Holding
Method or by the High Temperature Short Time Method respectively:
(a) by the Holding Method, the temperature of the milk is raised to not less than 63oC and not
more than 65∘C and retained at not less than 63oC and not more than 65o for at least 30
minutes and then immediately and rapidly reduced to 4oC or less and maintained at that
temperature with protection from contamination until the milk is removed from the
premises for delivery;
(b) by the High Temperature Short Time Method, the temperature of the milk is raised to not
less than 73∘C and retained at the temperature for at least 15 seconds or its equivalent of
time and temperature relationship and then immediately and rapidly reduced to 4∘C or
less and maintained at the temperature with protection from contamination until the
milk is removed from the premises for delivery.
(2) Pasteurized milk shall conform to the following tests:
(a)when subjected to the Reductase Test the sample shall not completely decolourize the
methylene blue solution in less than 5 hours;
(b) (repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88).
(c) when subjected to the Phosphatase Test, it shall give a reading not exceeding 10µg p –
nitrophenol per ml of milk;
(d) when pasteurized milk is homogenized, it shall comply with the Homogenization Test.
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing pasteurized milk the words
“pasteurized milk”.
R egulation 86. Sterilized milk.
(1) Sterilized milk shall be milk which has been filtered, homogenized and thereafter heated to
and maintained at a temperature of not less than 100oC for a length of time sufficient to render it
commercially sterile and shall be packed in hermetically sealed containers.
(2) (Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88).
(3) There shall be written in the label on a package containing sterilized milk the words
“sterilized milk”.
R egulation 87. Ultra high temperature milk or U.H.T milk.
(1) Ultra high temperature milk or U.H.T. milk shall be milk which has been subjected to heat
treatment by being retained at a temperature of not less than 135oC for at least two seconds to render
it commercially sterile and immediately aseptically packed in sterile containers.
Updated until December 2023
(2) There shall be written in the label on a package containing ultra high temperature milk or
U.H.T. milk the words “ultra high temperature milk” or “U.H.T. milk”, as the case may be.
[Am. P.U.(A) 162/88.]
R egulation 88. Reference to milk as food.
Any reference in these Regulations to “milk” as food or as an ingredient that shall or may be
included in any food shall be deemed to be a reference to “pasteurized milk”, “sterilized milk”, “ultra
high temperature milk” or “U.H.T. milk”, but shall not include milk, raw milk or fresh milk as specified
in regulation 82.
R egulation 89. Flavoured milk.
(1) Flavoured milk shall be milk or recombined milk to which permitted flavouring substance has
been added and may contain sugar or salt or both. It shall have been efficiently heat – treated by one of
the methods specified in paragraph 85(1)(a) or (b), subregulation 86(1) or subregulation 87(1).
(2) Flavoured milk shall contain not less than –
(a) 2 per cent of milk fat; and
(b) 8 per cent of non-fat milk solids.
(3) Flavoured milk may contain sucralose as permitted sweetening substance not exceeding 300
mg per kg. [(3) Am P.U.(A) 313/2012]
(4) Flavoured milk shall be homogenized and shall comply with the Homogenization Test.
[Am. P.U.(A) 183/86.]
(5) (Repealed by P.U.(A) 162/88).
(6) In the case of flavoured milk prepared from pasteurized milk, no ingredient shall be added to
such milk after pasteurizing, except that permitted colouring substance and permitted flavouring
substance may be added to such milk after pasteurizing, provided that permitted colouring substance
and permitted flavouring substance are sterilized and the addition is made immediately before the
flavoured milk is packed into final containers.
(7) There shall be written in the label on a package containing flavoured milk, the words “flavoured
milk” or the name of the flavour conjoined with the words “flavoured milk”. These words shall form
the first line of the label and no other words shall appear in the same line.
R egulation 90. Full cream milk powder or dried full cream milk.
(1) Full cream milk powder or dried full cream milk shall be milk or recombined milk from which the
water has been removed.
[Am. P.U.(A) 131 / 2002.]
(2) Full cream milk powder or dried full cream milk –
(a)shall not contain more than 5 per cent of water; and
(b) shall contain not less than 26 per cent of milk fat.
(3) Full cream milk powder or dried full cream milk may contain permitted food conditioner.
(4) There shall be written in the label on a package containing full cream milk powder or dried full
cream milk –
Updated until December 2023
(a) the words “full cream milk powder” or “dried full cream milk”, as the case may be,
immediately followed by the words “NOT SUITABLE FOR INFANTS BELOW SIX MONTHS
OF AGE”. The words shall form the first line or lines of the label and no other words shall
appear in the same line or lines; and
(b) the words “to prepare a liquid milk which shall contain not less than 3.25 per cent of
milk fat and not less than 8.5 per cent of non – fat milk solids, add (state the number)
parts of water by volume to 1 part of this milk powder by volume”.
(5) The words “specially suitable for children” or any word having the same or a similar effect shall
not be used in the label on a package containing full cream milk powder or dried full cream milk.
[Ins. P.U.(A) 88/2003]
